2023-04-28 06:17:35 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-04-28 06:17:35 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-28 06:18:03 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-28 06:18:03 INFO  - Session id - cb78308cf87f08c557de106f98782d5ab27d4930
2023-04-28 06:18:03 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-28 06:18:03 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:05 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-28 06:18:06 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-28 06:18:06 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:07 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-28 06:18:08 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-28 06:18:08 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:11 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-28 06:18:11 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-28 06:18:15 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:16 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-28 06:18:16 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:17 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:18 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:20 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-28 06:18:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:21 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:22 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:23 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-04-28 06:18:23 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - bookName: Blessed Monsters Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-28 06:18:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-04-28 06:18:26 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-28 06:18:26 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-28 06:18:28 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:18:34 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:18:34 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-28 06:18:55 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:18:56 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-28 06:18:56 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:19:17 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-28 06:19:37 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:19:39 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-28 06:19:39 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-04-28 06:19:39 INFO  - randomBookName: Martin Paz
2023-04-28 06:19:40 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-28 06:19:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Martin Paz'
2023-04-28 06:19:42 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-28 06:19:45 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-28 06:19:46 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:19:47 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:19:53 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-28 06:19:54 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:19:54 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:19:54 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-28 06:19:55 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:19:56 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-28 06:19:56 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-28 06:20:25 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-04-28 06:20:26 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-28 06:20:26 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-28 06:20:26 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-04-28 06:20:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-28 06:20:27 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Martin Paz-I.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788726506068.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">I.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p6">THE sun had just set behind the snowy peaks of the Cordilleras; but beneath this lovely Peruvian sky the atmosphere, across the transparent veil of night, was impregnated with a luminous freshness. It was the hour when one might live in a European air, and seek the soft breezes on the verandas.</p>
         <p id="p7">Whilst the earliest stars were rising in the horizon, many promenaders were thronging the streets of Lima, wrapped in light mantles, and talking sedately about matters the most trifling. Multitudes were moving towards the Plaza Mayor, the forum of the ancient “City of Kings.”</p>
         <p id="p8">Street vendors were taking advantage of the coolness to ply their daily trade, and were shouting praises of their wares with much ado. The women, carefully wrapped in mantillas which concealed their faces, were gliding among the groups of smokers. Some señoras, in ball costume, their heads uncovered, except by their abundant tresses adorned with natural flowers, were lounging in wide, open carriages. Indians passed to and fro without raising their eyes, knowing themselves too much despised to be observed, betraying neither by word nor gesture the dull envy which was devouring them; and they were thus in marked contrast with the half-breeds, who, outcasts like themselves, rebelled more loudly against their fate.</p>
         <p id="p9">As for the Spaniards, the proud descendants of Pizarro, they walked with erect heads, as in the time when their ancestors founded the “City of Kings.” Their traditional contempt was visited both upon the Indians whom they had conquered, and the half-breeds, born of the union between them and the denizens of the New World. The Indians, like all races reduced to servitude, thought only of breaking their chains, and hated equally the conquerors of the ancient empire of the Incas, and the half-breeds, a sort of middle class, full of insolent arrogance.</p>
         <p id="p10">But these half-breeds, Spaniards in the contempt with which they look down upon the Indians, and Indians in their hatred of the Spaniards, were consumed between these two equally active feelings.</p>
         <p id="p11">A group of young half-breeds were talking near the pretty fountain which rises in the middle of the Plaza Mayor. Wrapped in their “punchos” (garments of cotton cut in long squares, and pierced by an opening to give passage to the head), wearing loose pantaloons of many colors, their heads covered with straw hats with enormously wide brims, they were talking, shouting, and gesticulating.</p>
         <p id="p12">“You are right, André,” said a little obsequious man, whom they called Millaflores.</p>
         <p id="p13">Millaflores was the parasite of André Certa, who was a young half-breed, the son of a rich merchant who had been killed in one of the last insurrections of the conspirator Lafuente.</p>
         <p id="p14">André Certa had inherited a large fortune, and he spent it freely for the benefit of his friends, of whom he asked nothing but humble complaisance in exchange for his handfuls of gold.</p>
         <p id="p15">“What good are these changes of government, these eternal pronunciamentos which distract and agitate Peru?” resumed André in a loud voice. <i>“</i>It matters not whether Gambarra or Santa Cruz is in power, if equality does not reign among us.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“Well said, well said!” cried little Millaflores, who, even under a government of equality, could never have become the equal of a man of talent.</p>
         <p id="p17">“How!” André went on; “I, the son of a merchant, — I am only allowed to drive a carriage drawn by mules! Have not my ships brought riches and prosperity to Peru? Is not the useful aristocracy of dollars worth all the empty titles of Spain?”</p>
         <p id="p18">“’T is a shame!” replied a young half-breed. “And see! There is Don Fernand going by in his two-horse carriage. Don Fernand d’Aguillo! He has scarcely enough to feed his coachman, and he comes strutting across the Plaza! Good, there is another,— the Marquis Don Vegal!”</p>
         <p id="p19">A splendid carriage at this moment entered the Plaza Mayor. It was that of the Marquis Don Vegal, Knight of Alcantara, of Malta, and of Charles III. But this great lord came thither rather for distraction than ostentation. Sad thoughts absorbed his mind; his head was bowed, as if in sorrow; and he did not hear the envious criticisms of the half-breeds, as his horses opened a passage through the crowd.</p>
         <p id="p20">“I hate that man!” said André Certa.</p>
         <p id="p21">“You will not hate him long,” replied one of the young cavaliers.</p>
         <p id="p22">“No; for all these nobles are enjoying the last splendors of their luxury, and I know whither their plate and family jewels are going.”</p>
         <p id="p23">“Yes, you know something about it, for you frequent the house of Samuel the Jew.”</p>
         <p id="p24">“And there, on the old Jew’s ledgers, are inscribed the names of his aristocratic debtors, and in his coffers are being buried the remains of these vast fortunes! And on the day that all these Spaniards will be beggars, like their Cæsar de Bazan, we will have our opportunity.”</p>
         <p id="p25">“You especially, André, when you have added to your millions already won,” replied Millaflores. “And you will yet double your fortune. Ah, by the way, when do you wed old Samuel’s lovely young daughter, who is a child of Lima to the end of her finger-nails, and has nothing Jewish about her except her name of Sarah?”</p>
         <p id="p26">“In a month,” replied André; “and in a month, no fortune in Peru will rival mine!”</p>
         <p id="p27">“But why,” asked one of the young half-breeds, “do you not marry some Spanish girl of noble birth?”</p>
         <p id="p28">“I despise that sort of people as much as I hate them!”</p>
         <p id="p29">André Certa did not wish to confess that he had been pitilessly rejected by several noble families with whom he had attempted to form an alliance.</p>
         <p id="p30">At this moment a man of tall figure, with gray hair and of muscular form, rudely jostled André in the crowd.</p>
         <p id="p31">This man, an Indian of the mountains, was dressed in a brown jacket, beneath which was a shirt of coarse cloth, with a large collar, opened at his hairy breast; his short trousers, trimmed with green stripes, were attached by<span class="subscript"></span>red garters to stockings of an earthy color; he had leather sandals on his feet, and beneath his peaked hat shone a pair of large ear-rings.</p>
         <p id="p32">After elbowing André, he stared at him rudely.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Dog of an Indian!” cried the half-breed, raising his hand.</p>
         <p id="p34">His companions held him back, and Millaflores cried, —</p>
         <p id="p35">“André — André! Take care!”</p>
         <p id="p36">“A vile slave, to dare to elbow me!”</p>
         <p id="p37">“’T is a fool! ’T is Sambo!”</p>
         <p id="p38">Sambo continued to stare at the half-breed, whom he had intentionally jostled. The latter, beside himself with rage, seized a poniard in his belt, and was about to rush upon his assailant, when a guttural cry, like that of the Peruvian linnet, resounded in the midst of the tumult of the promenaders.</p>
         <p id="p39">Sambo disappeared.</p>
         <p id="p40">“Brute and coward!” cried André Certa.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Control yourself,” said Millaflores, softly, “and let us leave the Plaza. The Limans are too haughty here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">The party then directed their steps to the lower part of the Plaza. Night had come, and the ladies of Lima well merited their name of “tapadas” (concealed ones ), for their faces could not be distinguished beneath the mantillas which completely covered them.</p>
         <p id="p43">The Plaza Mayor was still full of animation. The cries and noise grew still louder. The horse-guards, posted in front of the main entrance of the Viceroy’s palace, on the north side of the Plaza, could scarcely keep their places amid this rest-less crowd. The most various industries seemed to have centred in the Plaza, which was nothing but an immense stall for all sorts of wares. The ground-floor of the Viceroy’s palace and the sub-basement of the cathedral, occupied by shops, formed a real bazaar, displaying all the tropical productions.</p>
         <p id="p44">The Plaza was alive with noise; but when the Angelus sounded from the cathedral bell, the noise suddenly ceased. The murmur of prayers succeeded the din of voices. The women paused in their promenade and took their rosaries in their hands.</p>
         <p id="p45">Whilst all stopped and were kneeling down or bowing their heads, one old duenna, who accompanied a young girl, tried to open a passage through the crowd. This caused ill-natured mutterings and grumblings at the two women who were interrupting the prayers. The young girl wished to stop, but the duenna drew her faster along.</p>
         <p id="p46">“Do you see that daughter of Satan?” said one near her.</p>
         <p id="p47">“Who is that accursed dancer?”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is one of those women of Carcaman!” *</p>
         <p id="p49">The young girl finally stopped, abashed.</p>
         <p id="p50">Of a sudden a muleteer took her by the shoulders and tried to force her to kneel down; but he had scarcely placed his hand upon her when a vigorous arm felled him to the ground. This scene, rapid as lightning, was followed by a moment of confusion.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Fly, señora!” said a gentle and respectful voice at her ear.</p>
         <p id="p52">She turned, pale with fright, and saw a tall young Indian, who, with folded arms, awaited his adversary in a firm attitude.</p>
         <p id="p53">“On my soul, we are lost!” cried the duenna.</p>
         <p id="p54">And she drew the young girl away.</p>
         <p id="p55">The muleteer had risen to his feet, all bruised with his fall; but, thinking it prudent not to take his revenge upon a foe of the young Indian’s resolute bearing, he returned to his mules and went off, growling out useless threats.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-28 06:20:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-28 06:20:27 INFO  - Step 16 - Open font settings
2023-04-28 06:20:28 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:20:28 INFO  - Step 17 - INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-04-28 06:20:28 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:20:29 INFO  - Step 18 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-04-28 06:20:29 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-28 06:20:29 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-28 06:20:29 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-04-28 06:20:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-28 06:20:30 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Martin Paz-I.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788726506068.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">I.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p6">THE sun had just set behind the snowy peaks of the Cordilleras; but beneath this lovely Peruvian sky the atmosphere, across the transparent veil of night, was impregnated with a luminous freshness. It was the hour when one might live in a European air, and seek the soft breezes on the verandas.</p>
         <p id="p7">Whilst the earliest stars were rising in the horizon, many promenaders were thronging the streets of Lima, wrapped in light mantles, and talking sedately about matters the most trifling. Multitudes were moving towards the Plaza Mayor, the forum of the ancient “City of Kings.”</p>
         <p id="p8">Street vendors were taking advantage of the coolness to ply their daily trade, and were shouting praises of their wares with much ado. The women, carefully wrapped in mantillas which concealed their faces, were gliding among the groups of smokers. Some señoras, in ball costume, their heads uncovered, except by their abundant tresses adorned with natural flowers, were lounging in wide, open carriages. Indians passed to and fro without raising their eyes, knowing themselves too much despised to be observed, betraying neither by word nor gesture the dull envy which was devouring them; and they were thus in marked contrast with the half-breeds, who, outcasts like themselves, rebelled more loudly against their fate.</p>
         <p id="p9">As for the Spaniards, the proud descendants of Pizarro, they walked with erect heads, as in the time when their ancestors founded the “City of Kings.” Their traditional contempt was visited both upon the Indians whom they had conquered, and the half-breeds, born of the union between them and the denizens of the New World. The Indians, like all races reduced to servitude, thought only of breaking their chains, and hated equally the conquerors of the ancient empire of the Incas, and the half-breeds, a sort of middle class, full of insolent arrogance.</p>
         <p id="p10">But these half-breeds, Spaniards in the contempt with which they look down upon the Indians, and Indians in their hatred of the Spaniards, were consumed between these two equally active feelings.</p>
         <p id="p11">A group of young half-breeds were talking near the pretty fountain which rises in the middle of the Plaza Mayor. Wrapped in their “punchos” (garments of cotton cut in long squares, and pierced by an opening to give passage to the head), wearing loose pantaloons of many colors, their heads covered with straw hats with enormously wide brims, they were talking, shouting, and gesticulating.</p>
         <p id="p12">“You are right, André,” said a little obsequious man, whom they called Millaflores.</p>
         <p id="p13">Millaflores was the parasite of André Certa, who was a young half-breed, the son of a rich merchant who had been killed in one of the last insurrections of the conspirator Lafuente.</p>
         <p id="p14">André Certa had inherited a large fortune, and he spent it freely for the benefit of his friends, of whom he asked nothing but humble complaisance in exchange for his handfuls of gold.</p>
         <p id="p15">“What good are these changes of government, these eternal pronunciamentos which distract and agitate Peru?” resumed André in a loud voice. <i>“</i>It matters not whether Gambarra or Santa Cruz is in power, if equality does not reign among us.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“Well said, well said!” cried little Millaflores, who, even under a government of equality, could never have become the equal of a man of talent.</p>
         <p id="p17">“How!” André went on; “I, the son of a merchant, — I am only allowed to drive a carriage drawn by mules! Have not my ships brought riches and prosperity to Peru? Is not the useful aristocracy of dollars worth all the empty titles of Spain?”</p>
         <p id="p18">“’T is a shame!” replied a young half-breed. “And see! There is Don Fernand going by in his two-horse carriage. Don Fernand d’Aguillo! He has scarcely enough to feed his coachman, and he comes strutting across the Plaza! Good, there is another,— the Marquis Don Vegal!”</p>
         <p id="p19">A splendid carriage at this moment entered the Plaza Mayor. It was that of the Marquis Don Vegal, Knight of Alcantara, of Malta, and of Charles III. But this great lord came thither rather for distraction than ostentation. Sad thoughts absorbed his mind; his head was bowed, as if in sorrow; and he did not hear the envious criticisms of the half-breeds, as his horses opened a passage through the crowd.</p>
         <p id="p20">“I hate that man!” said André Certa.</p>
         <p id="p21">“You will not hate him long,” replied one of the young cavaliers.</p>
         <p id="p22">“No; for all these nobles are enjoying the last splendors of their luxury, and I know whither their plate and family jewels are going.”</p>
         <p id="p23">“Yes, you know something about it, for you frequent the house of Samuel the Jew.”</p>
         <p id="p24">“And there, on the old Jew’s ledgers, are inscribed the names of his aristocratic debtors, and in his coffers are being buried the remains of these vast fortunes! And on the day that all these Spaniards will be beggars, like their Cæsar de Bazan, we will have our opportunity.”</p>
         <p id="p25">“You especially, André, when you have added to your millions already won,” replied Millaflores. “And you will yet double your fortune. Ah, by the way, when do you wed old Samuel’s lovely young daughter, who is a child of Lima to the end of her finger-nails, and has nothing Jewish about her except her name of Sarah?”</p>
         <p id="p26">“In a month,” replied André; “and in a month, no fortune in Peru will rival mine!”</p>
         <p id="p27">“But why,” asked one of the young half-breeds, “do you not marry some Spanish girl of noble birth?”</p>
         <p id="p28">“I despise that sort of people as much as I hate them!”</p>
         <p id="p29">André Certa did not wish to confess that he had been pitilessly rejected by several noble families with whom he had attempted to form an alliance.</p>
         <p id="p30">At this moment a man of tall figure, with gray hair and of muscular form, rudely jostled André in the crowd.</p>
         <p id="p31">This man, an Indian of the mountains, was dressed in a brown jacket, beneath which was a shirt of coarse cloth, with a large collar, opened at his hairy breast; his short trousers, trimmed with green stripes, were attached by<span class="subscript"></span>red garters to stockings of an earthy color; he had leather sandals on his feet, and beneath his peaked hat shone a pair of large ear-rings.</p>
         <p id="p32">After elbowing André, he stared at him rudely.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Dog of an Indian!” cried the half-breed, raising his hand.</p>
         <p id="p34">His companions held him back, and Millaflores cried, —</p>
         <p id="p35">“André — André! Take care!”</p>
         <p id="p36">“A vile slave, to dare to elbow me!”</p>
         <p id="p37">“’T is a fool! ’T is Sambo!”</p>
         <p id="p38">Sambo continued to stare at the half-breed, whom he had intentionally jostled. The latter, beside himself with rage, seized a poniard in his belt, and was about to rush upon his assailant, when a guttural cry, like that of the Peruvian linnet, resounded in the midst of the tumult of the promenaders.</p>
         <p id="p39">Sambo disappeared.</p>
         <p id="p40">“Brute and coward!” cried André Certa.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Control yourself,” said Millaflores, softly, “and let us leave the Plaza. The Limans are too haughty here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">The party then directed their steps to the lower part of the Plaza. Night had come, and the ladies of Lima well merited their name of “tapadas” (concealed ones ), for their faces could not be distinguished beneath the mantillas which completely covered them.</p>
         <p id="p43">The Plaza Mayor was still full of animation. The cries and noise grew still louder. The horse-guards, posted in front of the main entrance of the Viceroy’s palace, on the north side of the Plaza, could scarcely keep their places amid this rest-less crowd. The most various industries seemed to have centred in the Plaza, which was nothing but an immense stall for all sorts of wares. The ground-floor of the Viceroy’s palace and the sub-basement of the cathedral, occupied by shops, formed a real bazaar, displaying all the tropical productions.</p>
         <p id="p44">The Plaza was alive with noise; but when the Angelus sounded from the cathedral bell, the noise suddenly ceased. The murmur of prayers succeeded the din of voices. The women paused in their promenade and took their rosaries in their hands.</p>
         <p id="p45">Whilst all stopped and were kneeling down or bowing their heads, one old duenna, who accompanied a young girl, tried to open a passage through the crowd. This caused ill-natured mutterings and grumblings at the two women who were interrupting the prayers. The young girl wished to stop, but the duenna drew her faster along.</p>
         <p id="p46">“Do you see that daughter of Satan?” said one near her.</p>
         <p id="p47">“Who is that accursed dancer?”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is one of those women of Carcaman!” *</p>
         <p id="p49">The young girl finally stopped, abashed.</p>
         <p id="p50">Of a sudden a muleteer took her by the shoulders and tried to force her to kneel down; but he had scarcely placed his hand upon her when a vigorous arm felled him to the ground. This scene, rapid as lightning, was followed by a moment of confusion.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Fly, señora!” said a gentle and respectful voice at her ear.</p>
         <p id="p52">She turned, pale with fright, and saw a tall young Indian, who, with folded arms, awaited his adversary in a firm attitude.</p>
         <p id="p53">“On my soul, we are lost!” cried the duenna.</p>
         <p id="p54">And she drew the young girl away.</p>
         <p id="p55">The muleteer had risen to his feet, all bruised with his fall; but, thinking it prudent not to take his revenge upon a foe of the young Indian’s resolute bearing, he returned to his mules and went off, growling out useless threats.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-28 06:20:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-28 06:20:31 INFO  - Step 19 - Restart app
2023-04-28 06:20:55 INFO  - Step 20 - Open Books
2023-04-28 06:20:55 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:20:55 INFO  - Step 21 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-28 06:21:16 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:21:36 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-28 06:21:37 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-28 06:21:38 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:21:40 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:21:41 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:21:42 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:21:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:21:45 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:21:45 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-28 06:22:06 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-28 06:22:06 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@26a5b3bc
