2023-03-24 11:50:02 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-03-24 11:50:02 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-24 11:50:36 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-24 11:50:36 INFO  - Session id - 16ea3116eb84fbcb938f868ba8c2010d91f66986
2023-03-24 11:50:36 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-03-24 11:50:36 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:39 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-03-24 11:50:39 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-03-24 11:50:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:40 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-03-24 11:50:41 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-03-24 11:50:42 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 11:50:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-24 11:50:47 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:48 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-24 11:50:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:50 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:51 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:54 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-24 11:50:54 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:54 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:55 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:57 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:50:58 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-03-24 11:50:58 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-24 11:51:29 INFO  - bookName: Godsgrave Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 11:51:29 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-03-24 11:51:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 11:51:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-03-24 11:51:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 11:51:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-24 11:51:34 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:51:40 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:51:40 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-24 11:52:01 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:52:02 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-03-24 11:52:02 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:52:23 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-03-24 11:52:43 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:52:46 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-24 11:52:46 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-24 11:52:46 INFO  - randomBookName: Winds Through Time
2023-03-24 11:52:46 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 11:52:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Winds Through Time'
2023-03-24 11:52:50 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 11:52:53 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 11:52:54 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:52:55 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:02 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 11:53:03 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:53:03 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:04 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 11:53:05 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:06 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-24 11:53:06 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-24 11:53:27 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 11:53:29 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:29 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-03-24 11:53:29 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:30 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-24 11:53:31 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:53:31 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 11:53:32 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:53:32 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Winds Through Time</title>
<link href="../styles/9781554886906.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:aac79b96-6b76-4e30-ac55-ab1743325063" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><a id="page_ix"></a><a id="intro"></a><em>Introduction</em></h2>
<p class="indent">On a warm spring evening in 1996 I listened as a frail, white-haired man, his wheelchair pushed up against a small table, spoke to several hundred people in an auditorium in Winnipeg. As he talked his voice faltered, but his words were sure and strong. He told of being a child in the 1920s, of being kept out of school because he had tuberculosis which had settled in the bones of his wrist. He wore a protective cage on that wrist, he told us, but it didn’t prevent him from spending his days out on the prairies, watching the gophers as they popped up from their homes to stare curiously at him, listening to the harsh cries of the crows. He spent many hours alone on the prairie, the dust and the smell of dry grass thick in his throat, the empty sky arching above, the wind all around him.</p>
<p class="indent">In Canada, he said, a young person has “no medieval cathedrals with soaring Gothic arches to comfort him with ancestor echo.”</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_x"></a>Those words made a great impact on me. In the darkened auditorium I rummaged for my notebook and a pencil and wrote them down. I realized that Canadians do not need to walk on ancient Roman roads or touch crumbling castle walls to reach our past. We hear our ‘ancestral echoes’ in mountain streams, in rustling prairie grasses, in the songs of our oceans. We hear our echoes in the wind.</p>
<p class="indent">When the speech was over the audience stood. They applauded for a long time; many cried. Finally it grew quiet and W.O. Mitchell was wheeled from the stage.</p>
<p class="indent">Bill Mitchell knew well the sound of the wind which blows across this Canada of ours. He heard it first, he wrote about it first, that wind which carries in it the echoes of our ancestors, the voices of people long since gone. The contributors to this anthology have also heard that wind and those echoes. These authors wonder at the vast emptiness of the Canada of yesterday, and they write with great empathy about those who were Canadians before us.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows. Listen. In a small New Brunswick town, two sisters sit in a sunny doorway, whispering stories to a doll with cornsilk hair. The wind changes and, in another century in another province, medals clink together in a duffel bag as a weary father returns home from war to find that his son is no longer a child.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen again. A train whistle wails mournfully. From one ocean to the other train tracks stitched Canada together. As this train crosses a high trestle bridge in <a id="page_xi"></a>Northern B.C. a boy sits on a hard wooden seat, his mind and stomach uneasy, while a fellow traveller tells of the Gold Rush. In another train in Ontario, a young man imagines he hears the crackle of flames engulfing a cheese factory and wonders if he will be able to solve the mystery of how the fire began. Near a coal mine on Vancouver Island, the earth rumbles. An underground rail car moves slowly upwards towards the light where a desperate son waits for news of his father.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows though the years. It brings with it, loud in the midnight cold, the whine of a bush pilot’s engine. The northern lights blaze; there is laughter. As the wind changes, more laughter comes from a tiny community where a solitary family celebrates Hanukkah in the midst of their neighbours’ Christmas festivities.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the wind. Can you hear the music spilling from a Vancouver mansion where, beneath a candle lit Christmas tree, a masquerade party begins? Can you hear the splash as a whale rises from the sea, and two boys standing on the slippery rocks beneath a lighthouse watch in awe? Can you hear, from a burning shed in the Red River settlement, the panicked whinny of a frightened horse as a young Metis girl struggles to save its life and also to change her own?</p>
<p class="indent1">The wind’s power intensifies. The stiff branches of a dying orchard creak; pages flutter as a difficult letter is written to a grandfather in England. Another shift of wind and a harmonica’s tune is carried up to a flock of migrating geese, while on the Saskatchewan prairie below <a id="page_xii"></a>an unhappy boy watches, envying the birds’ freedom.</p>
<p class="indent">It is the wind which turns the pages of this book, releasing the soft voice of a Japanese grandmother as she tells of being imprisoned in an internment camp during the war; the determined voice of young Nellie McClung protesting in Manitoba years before her suffrage debate; the terrified voice of a mother screaming to protect her child from the cougar who crouches in a tree’s shadow.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind gusts. As it moves across the land and through the decades, we are blown from island to prairie, from the Maritimes to the far north, from mansions to shacks, from farm to city. We hear shouts of joy, cries of grief, the howls of wolves and the whispers of ghosts.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the echoes as you read. Listen to the wind.</p>
<p class="attribution"><em>Ann Walsh, Williams Lake, B.C.,<br />January 1, 1998</em></p>
<p class="noindent2"><em>The Writers’ Development Trust has graciously given permission to quote from W.O. Mitchell’s speech.</em></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 11:53:32 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:53:33 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-03-24 11:53:57 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-03-24 11:53:57 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:53:58 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-24 11:54:12 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:12 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 11:54:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:15 INFO  - Step 22 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-24 11:54:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:16 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 11:54:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:18 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Winds Through Time</title>
<link href="../styles/9781554886906.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:aac79b96-6b76-4e30-ac55-ab1743325063" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><a id="page_ix"></a><a id="intro"></a><em>Introduction</em></h2>
<p class="indent">On a warm spring evening in 1996 I listened as a frail, white-haired man, his wheelchair pushed up against a small table, spoke to several hundred people in an auditorium in Winnipeg. As he talked his voice faltered, but his words were sure and strong. He told of being a child in the 1920s, of being kept out of school because he had tuberculosis which had settled in the bones of his wrist. He wore a protective cage on that wrist, he told us, but it didn’t prevent him from spending his days out on the prairies, watching the gophers as they popped up from their homes to stare curiously at him, listening to the harsh cries of the crows. He spent many hours alone on the prairie, the dust and the smell of dry grass thick in his throat, the empty sky arching above, the wind all around him.</p>
<p class="indent">In Canada, he said, a young person has “no medieval cathedrals with soaring Gothic arches to comfort him with ancestor echo.”</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_x"></a>Those words made a great impact on me. In the darkened auditorium I rummaged for my notebook and a pencil and wrote them down. I realized that Canadians do not need to walk on ancient Roman roads or touch crumbling castle walls to reach our past. We hear our ‘ancestral echoes’ in mountain streams, in rustling prairie grasses, in the songs of our oceans. We hear our echoes in the wind.</p>
<p class="indent">When the speech was over the audience stood. They applauded for a long time; many cried. Finally it grew quiet and W.O. Mitchell was wheeled from the stage.</p>
<p class="indent">Bill Mitchell knew well the sound of the wind which blows across this Canada of ours. He heard it first, he wrote about it first, that wind which carries in it the echoes of our ancestors, the voices of people long since gone. The contributors to this anthology have also heard that wind and those echoes. These authors wonder at the vast emptiness of the Canada of yesterday, and they write with great empathy about those who were Canadians before us.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows. Listen. In a small New Brunswick town, two sisters sit in a sunny doorway, whispering stories to a doll with cornsilk hair. The wind changes and, in another century in another province, medals clink together in a duffel bag as a weary father returns home from war to find that his son is no longer a child.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen again. A train whistle wails mournfully. From one ocean to the other train tracks stitched Canada together. As this train crosses a high trestle bridge in <a id="page_xi"></a>Northern B.C. a boy sits on a hard wooden seat, his mind and stomach uneasy, while a fellow traveller tells of the Gold Rush. In another train in Ontario, a young man imagines he hears the crackle of flames engulfing a cheese factory and wonders if he will be able to solve the mystery of how the fire began. Near a coal mine on Vancouver Island, the earth rumbles. An underground rail car moves slowly upwards towards the light where a desperate son waits for news of his father.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows though the years. It brings with it, loud in the midnight cold, the whine of a bush pilot’s engine. The northern lights blaze; there is laughter. As the wind changes, more laughter comes from a tiny community where a solitary family celebrates Hanukkah in the midst of their neighbours’ Christmas festivities.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the wind. Can you hear the music spilling from a Vancouver mansion where, beneath a candle lit Christmas tree, a masquerade party begins? Can you hear the splash as a whale rises from the sea, and two boys standing on the slippery rocks beneath a lighthouse watch in awe? Can you hear, from a burning shed in the Red River settlement, the panicked whinny of a frightened horse as a young Metis girl struggles to save its life and also to change her own?</p>
<p class="indent1">The wind’s power intensifies. The stiff branches of a dying orchard creak; pages flutter as a difficult letter is written to a grandfather in England. Another shift of wind and a harmonica’s tune is carried up to a flock of migrating geese, while on the Saskatchewan prairie below <a id="page_xii"></a>an unhappy boy watches, envying the birds’ freedom.</p>
<p class="indent">It is the wind which turns the pages of this book, releasing the soft voice of a Japanese grandmother as she tells of being imprisoned in an internment camp during the war; the determined voice of young Nellie McClung protesting in Manitoba years before her suffrage debate; the terrified voice of a mother screaming to protect her child from the cougar who crouches in a tree’s shadow.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind gusts. As it moves across the land and through the decades, we are blown from island to prairie, from the Maritimes to the far north, from mansions to shacks, from farm to city. We hear shouts of joy, cries of grief, the howls of wolves and the whispers of ghosts.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the echoes as you read. Listen to the wind.</p>
<p class="attribution"><em>Ann Walsh, Williams Lake, B.C.,<br />January 1, 1998</em></p>
<p class="noindent2"><em>The Writers’ Development Trust has graciously given permission to quote from W.O. Mitchell’s speech.</em></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 11:54:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:19 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-24 11:54:20 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:21 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 11:54:22 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:22 INFO  - Step 25 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-24 11:54:23 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:23 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 11:54:24 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:24 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Winds Through Time</title>
<link href="../styles/9781554886906.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:aac79b96-6b76-4e30-ac55-ab1743325063" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><a id="page_ix"></a><a id="intro"></a><em>Introduction</em></h2>
<p class="indent">On a warm spring evening in 1996 I listened as a frail, white-haired man, his wheelchair pushed up against a small table, spoke to several hundred people in an auditorium in Winnipeg. As he talked his voice faltered, but his words were sure and strong. He told of being a child in the 1920s, of being kept out of school because he had tuberculosis which had settled in the bones of his wrist. He wore a protective cage on that wrist, he told us, but it didn’t prevent him from spending his days out on the prairies, watching the gophers as they popped up from their homes to stare curiously at him, listening to the harsh cries of the crows. He spent many hours alone on the prairie, the dust and the smell of dry grass thick in his throat, the empty sky arching above, the wind all around him.</p>
<p class="indent">In Canada, he said, a young person has “no medieval cathedrals with soaring Gothic arches to comfort him with ancestor echo.”</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_x"></a>Those words made a great impact on me. In the darkened auditorium I rummaged for my notebook and a pencil and wrote them down. I realized that Canadians do not need to walk on ancient Roman roads or touch crumbling castle walls to reach our past. We hear our ‘ancestral echoes’ in mountain streams, in rustling prairie grasses, in the songs of our oceans. We hear our echoes in the wind.</p>
<p class="indent">When the speech was over the audience stood. They applauded for a long time; many cried. Finally it grew quiet and W.O. Mitchell was wheeled from the stage.</p>
<p class="indent">Bill Mitchell knew well the sound of the wind which blows across this Canada of ours. He heard it first, he wrote about it first, that wind which carries in it the echoes of our ancestors, the voices of people long since gone. The contributors to this anthology have also heard that wind and those echoes. These authors wonder at the vast emptiness of the Canada of yesterday, and they write with great empathy about those who were Canadians before us.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows. Listen. In a small New Brunswick town, two sisters sit in a sunny doorway, whispering stories to a doll with cornsilk hair. The wind changes and, in another century in another province, medals clink together in a duffel bag as a weary father returns home from war to find that his son is no longer a child.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen again. A train whistle wails mournfully. From one ocean to the other train tracks stitched Canada together. As this train crosses a high trestle bridge in <a id="page_xi"></a>Northern B.C. a boy sits on a hard wooden seat, his mind and stomach uneasy, while a fellow traveller tells of the Gold Rush. In another train in Ontario, a young man imagines he hears the crackle of flames engulfing a cheese factory and wonders if he will be able to solve the mystery of how the fire began. Near a coal mine on Vancouver Island, the earth rumbles. An underground rail car moves slowly upwards towards the light where a desperate son waits for news of his father.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows though the years. It brings with it, loud in the midnight cold, the whine of a bush pilot’s engine. The northern lights blaze; there is laughter. As the wind changes, more laughter comes from a tiny community where a solitary family celebrates Hanukkah in the midst of their neighbours’ Christmas festivities.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the wind. Can you hear the music spilling from a Vancouver mansion where, beneath a candle lit Christmas tree, a masquerade party begins? Can you hear the splash as a whale rises from the sea, and two boys standing on the slippery rocks beneath a lighthouse watch in awe? Can you hear, from a burning shed in the Red River settlement, the panicked whinny of a frightened horse as a young Metis girl struggles to save its life and also to change her own?</p>
<p class="indent1">The wind’s power intensifies. The stiff branches of a dying orchard creak; pages flutter as a difficult letter is written to a grandfather in England. Another shift of wind and a harmonica’s tune is carried up to a flock of migrating geese, while on the Saskatchewan prairie below <a id="page_xii"></a>an unhappy boy watches, envying the birds’ freedom.</p>
<p class="indent">It is the wind which turns the pages of this book, releasing the soft voice of a Japanese grandmother as she tells of being imprisoned in an internment camp during the war; the determined voice of young Nellie McClung protesting in Manitoba years before her suffrage debate; the terrified voice of a mother screaming to protect her child from the cougar who crouches in a tree’s shadow.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind gusts. As it moves across the land and through the decades, we are blown from island to prairie, from the Maritimes to the far north, from mansions to shacks, from farm to city. We hear shouts of joy, cries of grief, the howls of wolves and the whispers of ghosts.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the echoes as you read. Listen to the wind.</p>
<p class="attribution"><em>Ann Walsh, Williams Lake, B.C.,<br />January 1, 1998</em></p>
<p class="noindent2"><em>The Writers’ Development Trust has graciously given permission to quote from W.O. Mitchell’s speech.</em></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 11:54:24 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:25 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 11:54:26 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:26 INFO  - Step 27 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA
2023-03-24 11:54:26 INFO  - Button 'setThemeSepia' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:27 INFO  - Step 28 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA background is correct
2023-03-24 11:54:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 11:54:28 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 11:54:28 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:28 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Winds Through Time</title>
<link href="../styles/9781554886906.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:aac79b96-6b76-4e30-ac55-ab1743325063" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><a id="page_ix"></a><a id="intro"></a><em>Introduction</em></h2>
<p class="indent">On a warm spring evening in 1996 I listened as a frail, white-haired man, his wheelchair pushed up against a small table, spoke to several hundred people in an auditorium in Winnipeg. As he talked his voice faltered, but his words were sure and strong. He told of being a child in the 1920s, of being kept out of school because he had tuberculosis which had settled in the bones of his wrist. He wore a protective cage on that wrist, he told us, but it didn’t prevent him from spending his days out on the prairies, watching the gophers as they popped up from their homes to stare curiously at him, listening to the harsh cries of the crows. He spent many hours alone on the prairie, the dust and the smell of dry grass thick in his throat, the empty sky arching above, the wind all around him.</p>
<p class="indent">In Canada, he said, a young person has “no medieval cathedrals with soaring Gothic arches to comfort him with ancestor echo.”</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_x"></a>Those words made a great impact on me. In the darkened auditorium I rummaged for my notebook and a pencil and wrote them down. I realized that Canadians do not need to walk on ancient Roman roads or touch crumbling castle walls to reach our past. We hear our ‘ancestral echoes’ in mountain streams, in rustling prairie grasses, in the songs of our oceans. We hear our echoes in the wind.</p>
<p class="indent">When the speech was over the audience stood. They applauded for a long time; many cried. Finally it grew quiet and W.O. Mitchell was wheeled from the stage.</p>
<p class="indent">Bill Mitchell knew well the sound of the wind which blows across this Canada of ours. He heard it first, he wrote about it first, that wind which carries in it the echoes of our ancestors, the voices of people long since gone. The contributors to this anthology have also heard that wind and those echoes. These authors wonder at the vast emptiness of the Canada of yesterday, and they write with great empathy about those who were Canadians before us.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows. Listen. In a small New Brunswick town, two sisters sit in a sunny doorway, whispering stories to a doll with cornsilk hair. The wind changes and, in another century in another province, medals clink together in a duffel bag as a weary father returns home from war to find that his son is no longer a child.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen again. A train whistle wails mournfully. From one ocean to the other train tracks stitched Canada together. As this train crosses a high trestle bridge in <a id="page_xi"></a>Northern B.C. a boy sits on a hard wooden seat, his mind and stomach uneasy, while a fellow traveller tells of the Gold Rush. In another train in Ontario, a young man imagines he hears the crackle of flames engulfing a cheese factory and wonders if he will be able to solve the mystery of how the fire began. Near a coal mine on Vancouver Island, the earth rumbles. An underground rail car moves slowly upwards towards the light where a desperate son waits for news of his father.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind blows though the years. It brings with it, loud in the midnight cold, the whine of a bush pilot’s engine. The northern lights blaze; there is laughter. As the wind changes, more laughter comes from a tiny community where a solitary family celebrates Hanukkah in the midst of their neighbours’ Christmas festivities.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the wind. Can you hear the music spilling from a Vancouver mansion where, beneath a candle lit Christmas tree, a masquerade party begins? Can you hear the splash as a whale rises from the sea, and two boys standing on the slippery rocks beneath a lighthouse watch in awe? Can you hear, from a burning shed in the Red River settlement, the panicked whinny of a frightened horse as a young Metis girl struggles to save its life and also to change her own?</p>
<p class="indent1">The wind’s power intensifies. The stiff branches of a dying orchard creak; pages flutter as a difficult letter is written to a grandfather in England. Another shift of wind and a harmonica’s tune is carried up to a flock of migrating geese, while on the Saskatchewan prairie below <a id="page_xii"></a>an unhappy boy watches, envying the birds’ freedom.</p>
<p class="indent">It is the wind which turns the pages of this book, releasing the soft voice of a Japanese grandmother as she tells of being imprisoned in an internment camp during the war; the determined voice of young Nellie McClung protesting in Manitoba years before her suffrage debate; the terrified voice of a mother screaming to protect her child from the cougar who crouches in a tree’s shadow.</p>
<p class="indent">The wind gusts. As it moves across the land and through the decades, we are blown from island to prairie, from the Maritimes to the far north, from mansions to shacks, from farm to city. We hear shouts of joy, cries of grief, the howls of wolves and the whispers of ghosts.</p>
<p class="indent">Listen to the echoes as you read. Listen to the wind.</p>
<p class="attribution"><em>Ann Walsh, Williams Lake, B.C.,<br />January 1, 1998</em></p>
<p class="noindent2"><em>The Writers’ Development Trust has graciously given permission to quote from W.O. Mitchell’s speech.</em></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 11:54:28 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 11:54:29 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-24 11:54:30 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-24 11:54:31 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:54:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:54:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:54:39 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 11:55:00 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 11:55:21 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-24 11:55:21 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@25cfa751
