2023-07-22 03:27:32 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-07-22 03:27:32 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-07-22 03:27:59 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-07-22 03:27:59 INFO  - Session id - e224048a5b61cabfc394954d328e8a8a59ce1ee0
2023-07-22 03:27:59 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-07-22 03:27:59 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:01 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-07-22 03:28:02 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-07-22 03:28:02 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:02 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-07-22 03:28:04 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-07-22 03:28:04 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 03:28:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-07-22 03:28:09 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:09 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-07-22 03:28:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:11 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:13 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-07-22 03:28:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:14 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:15 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:17 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:17 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-07-22 03:28:17 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-07-22 03:28:18 INFO  - bookName: Apples Never Fall Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 03:28:18 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-07-22 03:28:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 03:28:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-07-22 03:28:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 03:28:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-07-22 03:28:22 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:28:27 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:28:28 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-07-22 03:28:49 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:28:49 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-07-22 03:28:49 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:29:12 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-07-22 03:29:33 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:29:34 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-07-22 03:29:34 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-07-22 03:29:34 INFO  - randomBookName: The Hidden
2023-07-22 03:29:34 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-22 03:29:35 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Hidden'
2023-07-22 03:29:38 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-22 03:29:41 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-22 03:29:42 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:29:42 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:29:49 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-22 03:29:50 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:29:50 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:29:51 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-22 03:29:51 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:29:52 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-07-22 03:29:53 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-07-22 03:30:11 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-07-22 03:30:12 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:12 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-07-22 03:30:12 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:13 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-07-22 03:30:14 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-22 03:30:14 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-22 03:30:15 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-22 03:30:15 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 8</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch8" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch8"><span aria-label="33" id="pg_33" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">8</h1>
</header>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph">
<p class="PEP"><i>Beneath the depths of the ocean, according to these stories, an atmosphere exists adapted to the respiratory organs of certain beings, resembling in form the human race, possessed of surpassing beauty, of limited supernatural powers, and liable to the incident of death. They dwell in a wide territory of the globe, far below the region of fishes, over which the sea, like the cloudy canopy of our sky, loftily rolls.</i></p>
<p class="FMEPC">—George Brisbane Scott Douglas, 
<br />“The Fisherman and the Merman,” 1901</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="DL">THEN</p>
<p class="DL1">Ruby</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>August</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">R<small>UBY WAS WATCHING</small> </span>Yoga Man from the safety of the dark. She was sitting, wrapped in a duvet, on the draining board, her feet in the sink. The routine was familiar; she’d been watching him without fail every day, for so long that the sequences repeated in a pattern she could now predict. Today was headstand day.</p>
<p class="TX">Being awake at three thirty <small>AM</small> was standard for Ruby these days, now that a normal person’s regime, like having work hours and a social life, was no longer relevant. She dwelled in a <span aria-label="34" id="pg_34" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>permanent half-light; whenever an errant sunbeam edged around the closed curtains and sought her out, it felt as if it burned. The only time the curtains were open fully was at night, when she was watching Yoga Man. A guilty pleasure, perhaps even shameful, but in those silent hours, cocooned in the velvet dark and the warmth of the bedcover, she felt more alive than she had in a long time. His movements both soothed and ignited her. When he walked toward her at the end of the routine, to shut the blinds against the approaching dawn, she imagined he was looking at her, acknowledging her. He seemed to gaze straight into her eyes, though where she sat, behind glass, protected by the dark, he could never have seen her.</p>
<p class="TX">When it was over, Ruby would get down from her perch and go to bed, tying a scarf over her eyes to block out the light, sleeping until mid-afternoon. Just like Barbara, her boss, had said, after she’d driven Ruby home from work on the day she’d been signed off sick, yoga practice was meant to be good for your mental health. Barbara meant for her to take a class, but perhaps watching someone else do it was equally effective. It was certainly true that once she’d discovered Yoga Man, Ruby felt she was less depressed and more productive. He was inspirational: when she wasn’t watching him, or sleeping, she was working on her music.</p>
<p class="TX">Ruby had been spending more and more time playing, perfecting sections from Sibelius’s <i>D Minor Concerto</i>. The piece was fiendishly difficult, and while she played, she felt she had a sense of purpose, a hope that she might conquer it, do it justice, as only the best players could. Only when the callouses on the tips of her fingers started to bleed onto the ebony of the fingerboard and her shoulders screamed from the tension of the playing position would she wrap the instrument in its ancient duster and place it safely away. Only then would the bad thoughts seep in, along with the loneliness. She tried to keep playing until it was time to watch Yoga Man, but sometimes it wasn’t possible. Thank goodness, then, that in the past few weeks she’d felt a new awakening. She’d started to compose something herself; a piece that, when she was immersed in it, chased away the bad thoughts so completely that she was entirely made of music. It was as if when she played, she was losing herself in becoming a conduit for Sibelius or Mozart or <span aria-label="35" id="pg_35" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Grieg. But when she sat down to compose, the conduit was something else, not a person. A spirit perhaps, but not a completely nice one. It had personality, this muse of hers.</p>
<p class="TX">The melody she was writing had appeared, fully formed, as she watched Yoga Man one night, and she’d scribbled it down, convinced it was something she’d heard before. She hummed it quietly, and its haunting beauty made her think of the ocean at night. The theme began with a tritone—<i>the Devil’s interval</i>—and in her head the first three notes were played slowly, almost tentatively, on a low flute echoed by a solo viola. Where had she heard it before? It turned out she hadn’t. The tune felt so complete, so filmic, and filled with a kind of foreboding. As she went deeper into the composition, it felt less as if someone else had written it, more that it was writing itself. And since then, every time she returned to the manuscript, it seemed like the notes were coming from another place, through her rather than from her. Her fingers held the pen that rested on the paper, and from it the music surged, unexpected, sometimes chilling, and utterly exquisite.</p>
<p class="TX">Because of the music, she’d never started the antidepressants that the doctor had given her. More than once she’d picked them up in the packet, taken out the leaflet and read the list of possible side effects, then put them back down again. The doctor had told her the pills would rebalance the chemicals in her brain, but the idea of that was more frightening than the bad thoughts. The pills might dull her creativity, which she already considered to be tenuous and fleeting. They might take away the desire to compose, and with it the first truly beautiful thing she’d created. It was too much to risk.</p>
<p class="TX">The tap dripped on her toe, bringing her back to the room. Across the way, Yoga Man was standing at the window, his hand on the pull for the blind. Ruby stared straight into his eyes, as she usually did. He appeared to be looking at her, and she enjoyed the sensation, the fantasy that he knew she was watching and was performing it all for her. Then, he cupped his hand over his eyes to shade them and pressed his face to the window. His body language transformed from relaxed to agitated. He <i>could</i> see her. He turned, dashed across to the wall where his light switches were. Suddenly the big window was plunged into darkness.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label="36" id="pg_36" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Ruby scrambled off the drainer, fell heavily on her side, and lay there on the tiles, breathing hard. After a minute she crawled toward the bed-sitting room, avoiding the windows in case the man was still standing there in his darkened room, peering out, wondering who it was that was spying on him.</p>
<p class="TX">It was impossible to sleep. Instead, as the sun rose, she worked on her composition, adding a movement that became chaotically discordant, spiky, and unpleasant. Reaching the final few bars, she decided that she hated every bit of it. She crumpled up the new section and tossed it into the bin.</p>
<p class="TX">The following day, Ruby practiced the Sibelius past the point at which her fingers hurt. She didn’t eat all day, so by the time night fell, she was beyond hunger, enjoying the light feeling of nothing in her stomach, her mind a flighty thing jumping between ideas without fulling exploring any single one, forgetting what she’d been thinking about, not really caring either. At the usual time, in the darkness, she parted the curtains and peeked toward Yoga Man’s window, hoping to see him there, in yoga pants and nothing else, just like normal. It was planks day today; she loved to see the straightness of his body, his taut backside the only interruption to the perfect line from head to shoulder, to heel. Disappointment stung: the blinds were drawn. Her private show was over, all of her fun spoiled. The yoga would go on, but she wasn’t privy to it, not anymore. Ruby felt nothing but shame and loss.</p>
<p class="TX">Back in the bed-sitting room, she opened the manuscript she’d been working on and stared at the hundreds of neatly drawn runs of notes. The work had grown, covering both sides of fifty or more pages, but she suddenly couldn’t remember why she’d even started it. The melody she’d been so entranced by, that she’d based the whole thing on, seemed trite, derivative. No one would want to hear this, let alone play it. Not even the Devil—especially not him. There was nothing mischievous or dark there, nothing clever or profound. It was all dull, repetitive, predictable. She got up, dropped the entire sheaf of papers into the recycling chute and climbed into bed. There, in a fit of recklessness, she shook four sleeping pills into her palm and crunched them between her teeth before lying down, closing her eyes, and letting the drugs drag her consciousness away.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label="37" id="pg_37" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Waking in the afternoon, Ruby realized she had only half an hour to make her appointment at the GP’s. She threw on some clothes and rushed out, hair and teeth unbrushed, bare feet shoved into old trainers. The doctor looked her up and down and briskly signed her off work for another six weeks. He peered at her over the top of his spectacles. “How are you finding taking the antidepressants?”</p>
<p class="TX">Ruby said, “Oh, fine. I feel much better, actually.”</p>
<p class="TX">“No side effects?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Nothing significant, no.”</p>
<p class="TX">She did not mention that she still had no plans to take even a single one.</p>
<p class="TX">The doctor gave her another prescription, which Ruby shoved in a pocket on her way out of the surgery. What would happen, she wondered, if she took all of the pills in one go? Would she die quickly, floating away in a blissful cloud of obliviousness? Or would her liver implode, causing untold pain and suffering? It would be interesting to find out, in a way. At least she would feel something other than shame, or loneliness.</p>
<p class="TX">On the tram, exhausted and listless, she stared out the window so that at first she didn’t notice him: Yoga Man was sitting two rows in front of her. She looked once, then away, wondering, <i>Is that really him?</i> She recognized the back of his head, the curve of his neck. Her heart began to pound. She pressed the button for the tram to stop, got up and went past him, holding on to the rail near the door as the vehicle slowed. <i>Don’t make it too obvious,</i> she told herself, and allowed herself only a short glance in his direction as she got off. He was staring right at her, a slight frown creasing his forehead. She panicked then, hurrying out the doors before they were fully opened, keeping her head down until the tram was out of sight.</p>
<p class="TX">Ruby trudged back to the flat in the rain. By the time she got there, she found that a plan had formed, seemingly of its own accord, a bit like the melody had done. There was a quiver of a thrill, that she was being guided by the muse again, but this time not just in music. She made no attempt to resist or to think it through: she walked in the door and got straight into the shower, turned it up as hot as she could bear it and began to scrub. Soon <span aria-label="38" id="pg_38" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>she’d washed away two weeks of grime, shampooed her hair three times. She shaved her armpits and legs, exfoliated her entire body the way she always used to do. She toweled herself dry, applied lotion, used tweezers to shape her eyebrows. She put makeup on and grabbed a dress out of her wardrobe that she hadn’t worn in months. <i>There,</i> she thought, admiring herself in the mirror. <i>I’m unrecognizable.</i></p>
<p class="TX"><i>You’re all dressed up with nowhere to go,</i> said a mean voice inside her head.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>I don’t have anywhere to go yet,</i> she said to the voice. <i>But maybe I will soon.</i></p>
<p class="TX">That night, she put on a pair of heels, stood in the dark, and watched the shadows play on the blinds of his living room, imagining the scene within. It was comforting to know that he was still doing the yoga, even if she couldn’t see it. That perfectly muscled body had to be maintained somehow.</p>
<p class="TX">Ruby went to bed and slept better than she had in weeks, without any sleeping pills, between clean sheets. The next day she dressed carefully, forced herself to eat a breakfast of scrambled eggs and set off to ride the tram.</p>
<p class="TX">There was no sign of him, so she rode all the way to the end of the line and back, getting off in the city center to sit and watch the crowds for a while. She was gratified to see that several young men noticed her, though she didn’t acknowledge their curious glances. Just yesterday she’d been invisible, a hunched and grubby thing, moving through the press of people without drawing a single eye. Apart from his. He’d looked at her. He’d seen her.</p>
<p class="TX">At the market, she bought an apple and ate it while she stood at the tram stop, waiting to get on, heading out of town again, only to come back in.</p>
<p class="TX">When he wasn’t on the next tram either, Ruby couldn’t hold back the disappointment. She stopped hoping but kept riding. There was no reason to go home, really. <i>See?</i> said the mean voice in her head. <i>I told you.</i></p>
<p class="TX">The apple core was brown and spindly where she held it between thumb and forefinger, and she was about to admit defeat when suddenly, there he was, shuffling on board with his head down. After a moment his eyes swept the passengers with a kind of nervousness <span aria-label="39" id="pg_39" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>and paused, she thought, just for a second, on her. Ruby watched him from the side of her vision, her face turned away. Taller than she’d thought, with longish, wavy hair, dressed in a rather ill-fitting suit, Yoga Man had been waiting at the stop nearest the banks. He didn’t strike her as a banker, though: too alternative. A bead on a leather string peeped out from below his cuff, so that the impression was of a surfer who’d been to a job interview. As he passed her in the aisle, she looked straight at him, and their eyes met.</p>
<p class="TX">He paused. “Do I know you?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I don’t think so,” said Ruby, and smiled slightly, shrugging with her eyebrows before turning back to the window.</p>
<p class="TX">He didn’t move. “I’m so sure. You look really familiar. Do you ever go to the gym near the bypass?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No, not me.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, okay.” He sounded disappointed in her answer.</p>
<p class="TX">“Wait,” she said, “are you saying I need to join a gym? That’s a bit rude.” Ruby straightened her dress and crossed her arms. She knew she wasn’t fat—she was far too thin, if anything, though it was true that she rarely exercised. Maybe he thought she needed to tone up.</p>
<p class="TX">“Of course not.” He started to stutter, and a blush rose in his cheeks. “I only meant that … I thought maybe I’d seen you around. My office is near the gym, that’s all. I didn’t mean …”</p>
<p class="TX">She watched him for a moment, astounded that anyone would be stumbling over their words because of something she’d said.</p>
<p class="TX">He went on, “I don’t even go there, myself. I hate gyms. It’s just, I just …” For an unsettling moment, she thought he was going to cry.</p>
<p class="TX">She placed a hand on his forearm. “It’s okay. I wasn’t offended. I was joking with you.”</p>
<p class="TX">The movement of the tram yanked his arm away, so that her hand hovered in the air for a beat, and they both stared at it before she took it back. He said, “I’m sorry, I don’t usually—I mean, I never … I’m just not good at talking to girls. I mean women.” He ran a hand through his hair, stared at his shoes, appeared to swallow. “I’m so sorry—I meant <i>people</i>.” Then he swung his bag onto his shoulder and pressed the bell for the tram to stop. Ruby wanted to grab hold of him, to make him stay exactly where he was.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label="40" id="pg_40" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>“Honestly, it was nothing,” she said.</p>
<p class="TX">“No, it was a dumb thing to say. But you’re kind to say that. I’m really sorry.”</p>
<p class="TX">He was edging farther away from her.</p>
<p class="TX">“Wait,” she said. “I don’t know your name.”</p>
<p class="TX">Confusion crossed his face, as if he couldn’t work out why she would want to know his name. Then he met her gaze, and the blush rose to his cheeks once more. “It’s Gregor.” He raised his eyebrows in a question.</p>
<p class="TX">“Ruby.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Like the jewel,” he said, and then cringed as if he’d said something stupid.</p>
<p class="TX">The tram was slowing to a stop, and people were filling the gap between them as they prepared to get off. Although she wanted to say something clever to make him stay, to make him talk to her some more, to reassure him that he hadn’t offended her, all she could manage was, “See ya.”</p>
<p class="TX">The rest of the journey home passed in a blur. She wondered why he’d gotten off the tram early, whether he’d done it just to get away from her because he was embarrassed, or if he had somewhere else to be. He’d seemed to recognize her, which was both worrying and thrilling. It was possible he knew her from the estate or from seeing her around the city in the days before her world shrank to the size of her flat. Perhaps, when she’d still been at work, they’d shared a commute; perhaps she wasn’t as invisible as she thought she was.</p>
<p class="TX">At her apartment building she had so much nervous energy to burn that she ran up the stairs instead of taking the lift. She’d spoken to Yoga Man! He thought he knew her! He seemed nice! She checked her mailbox and found a letter from Sam, finally. Today was a good day indeed.</p>
<p class="TX">At three <small>AM</small>, Ruby was still awake but feeling almost ready to go to sleep. Her practice had gone really well: she’d mastered some of the more virtuosic sections of the concerto and remembered to stop before her arms started hurting. After that she’d written back to Sam, a slightly manic three-page ramble that began:</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="EXT_ONLY"><i>Sam! I think I’ve met someone. I mean, maybe not met someone, but then maybe that is what I’ve done. I’ve made a new</i> <span aria-label="41" id="pg_41" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><i>friend anyway—probably? But I have a good feeling about him. You know how sometimes you just know? And I’m composing again, which is a big thing for me. You’ll have to hear it when it’s done. I think it might be good, and I’ve never thought that about anything I’ve written before …</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX">She’d posted the letter, then spent two hours beginning to recreate her composition from the scraps of what she remembered. Despite the difficulty of the task, she eventually concluded that it had been a good thing to throw it out and start again. She had feared that her tricksy muse had gone, that the spirit of <i>diabolus in musica</i> had grown bored waiting and left her, but as soon as she started to hum the main theme, it returned, along with her passion. The piece crackled with an urgency that it had lacked in its previous incarnation. In her head she could hear an orchestra playing it; she could even picture herself performing the solo, an image so clear that she could see the exact blue of the dress she would wear, the curve of the stage and the lighting. She could envisage the rapt faces of the audience members, shivers traveling through them and right back to Ruby, on stage. And the applause, washing over her, endless waves of it.</p>
<p class="TX">Time was sucked away, and soon the night was almost over. It was just before dawn when she took her makeup off, and Ruby was fizzing with possibility, with positive thoughts of change. She made a pact with herself to start going to bed earlier, to train herself back into normality before she returned to teaching in a few weeks’ time. Perhaps she didn’t need to stay away so long; she felt so much better. She would ring Barbara and ask to return to work. And she would stop trying to spy on Gregor (she rolled the new name around in her head, relishing the roundness of the vowels, the soft consonants) because that was not normal behavior, was it? Even as she thought this, she went through to the kitchen and found herself looking over at Gregor’s apartment building, hoping to see him there, softly lit by a side lamp, tackling a tricky inversion.</p>
<p class="TX">The big window was dark, though this time the blinds were open. She turned the lights off and stood, imagining herself on the other side of the drop, standing in his living room, looking over <span aria-label="42" id="pg_42" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>here. The fantasy was so vivid that she could actually see the outline of herself in his window. She pressed a palm to her own window and gazed at the image of her future self, so content to be inside Gregor’s apartment, waiting perhaps to start the yoga routine that they would perform together now. He would teach her; she would be a good student, and the lessons would calm her anxious mind.</p>
<p class="TX">Then, she froze, fear chilling her, running up her spine. She rubbed her eyes and looked again. The outline she had just imagined had taken shape, become solid, a dark figure forming in front of her eyes as she stared: there really was someone there, standing in the shadowed room, looking out. Not Gregor; it was a woman.</p>
<p class="TX">Her panicked brain scrambled for an explanation. She kept darting her eyes away and looking back, hoping not to see it. Was it a hallucination? Just when she’d started to feel on top of things? <i>Oh,</i> she thought, <i>perhaps it could be a reflection, somehow, of me, standing here.</i> But when she took her own hand down from the glass, the figure’s hand remained, white against the surface of the window. And beyond the hand, looming from the darkness, a pale face like the moon, with dark eyes that stared into her own. The face came closer to the glass, almost pressing up against it, a ghostly vision. Ruby ducked down, trying to hide, even though it was too late: she’d been seen.</p>
<p class="TX">Whoever it was—whatever it was—turned and walked away, back into the room.</p>
<p class="TX">For a while Ruby stood gazing at the blank eye of the big window, heart pounding, wondering if she was dreaming. No, of course she wasn’t; she could feel the cold kitchen floor beneath her feet, the rim of the stainless-steel sink under her fingers. She blinked and the woman was back, standing in the same place, but this time there was a bundle in her arms. It looked like a baby. Holding the child with one arm, the woman placed the other hand on the window, palm out, fingers splayed. With the baby she seemed less like a ghost, more like a human, though Ruby was still afraid; the way she stared, as if in accusation. The way her hands clutched the child, and her eyes, unblinking. Who was this woman to Gregor? His wife? Girlfriend?</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Oh, Gregor.</i> Ruby felt the disappointment bodily, the sensation of falling from a height, and gripped the edge of the sink to <span aria-label="43" id="pg_43" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>stop herself stumbling. At the same time she chastised herself: Why was she so upset by this? She hadn’t lost anything, not really, because she hadn’t had anything to start with, only a glimmer of hope. In a sick kind of a way, she was glad to have seen the woman—wife, partner, whatever she was—because it meant that Ruby knew where she stood: back on firm ground, where good things only happened to other people, and all the best men were taken or not interested. Not that Gregor would have been interested in her. How would she have explained the spying, for a start?</p>
<p class="TX">The woman in Gregor’s darkened apartment continued to stare across the drop and into Ruby’s eyes. After what seemed like a very long time, the woman reached across for the blind cord and slowly rolled it down, keeping her eyes on Ruby until the very last second.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-22 03:30:15 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-22 03:30:15 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-07-22 03:30:17 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-07-22 03:30:18 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:21 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:22 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:30:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:30:25 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 03:30:46 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 03:30:47 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@258fab80
