2023-04-13 02:53:33 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-04-13 02:53:33 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-13 02:54:00 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-13 02:54:00 INFO  - Session id - 881a13682218cacb6806540ac79fb2524171a93e
2023-04-13 02:54:00 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-13 02:54:00 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:02 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-13 02:54:02 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-13 02:54:02 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:03 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-13 02:54:04 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "Palace Bookshelf" on Add library screen
2023-04-13 02:54:04 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-13 02:54:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'Palace Bookshelf'
2023-04-13 02:54:09 INFO  - Button 'Palace Bookshelf' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:10 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "Palace Bookshelf" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-13 02:54:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:11 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:12 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:14 INFO  - Step 6 - Open Catalog
2023-04-13 02:54:14 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:35 INFO  - Step 7 - Open search modal
2023-04-13 02:54:56 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:54:58 INFO  - Step 8 - Search for 'Flower Fables' and save bookName as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-13 02:54:59 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-13 02:54:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Flower Fables'
2023-04-13 02:55:02 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-13 02:55:03 INFO  - Step 9 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-13 02:55:05 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-13 02:55:06 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:55:08 INFO  - Step 10 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-13 02:55:08 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-13 02:55:09 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:55:10 INFO  - Step 11 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-13 02:55:12 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:55:12 INFO  - Step 12 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-13 02:55:12 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-13 02:55:33 INFO  - Step 13 - Open font settings
2023-04-13 02:55:34 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:55:34 INFO  - Step 14 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-04-13 02:55:35 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:55:35 INFO  - Step 15 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-04-13 02:55:36 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-13 02:55:36 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-13 02:55:37 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:55:38 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Flower Fables</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="section_741268" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">THE FROST-KING: OR, THE POWER OF
LOVE.</h3>
<div class="text">
<p>THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast;
each among the leaves of her favorite flower, Daisy, Primrose, and
Violet, were happy as Elves need be.</p>
<p>The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro, and the sun
shone warmly down upon the dewy grass, where butterflies spread
their gay wings, and bees with their deep voices sung among the
flowers; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at
them.</p>
<p>On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast; little cakes of
flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf, beside a crimson strawberry,
which, with sugar from the violet, and cream from the yellow
milkweed, made a fairy meal, and their drink was the dew from the
flowers' bright leaves.</p>
<p>"Ah me," sighed Primrose, throwing herself languidly back, "how
warm the sun grows! give me another piece of strawberry, and then I
must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns. But while I eat, tell
me, dear Violet, why are you all so sad? I have scarce seen a happy
face since my return from Rose Land; dear friend, what means
it?"</p>
<p>"I will tell you," replied little Violet, the tears gathering in
her soft eyes. "Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear
flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King; many ways she
tried, but all have failed. She has sent messengers to his court
with costly gifts; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight,
weary and sad; we have watched over them, heedless of sun or
shower, but still his dark spirits do their work, and we are left
to weep over our blighted blossoms. Thus have we striven, and in
vain; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time.
Therefore are we sad, dear Primrose, for she has toiled and cared
for us, and we can do nothing to help or advise her now."</p>
<p>"It is indeed a cruel thing," replied her friend; "but as we
cannot help it, we must suffer patiently, and not let the sorrows
of others disturb our happiness. But, dear sisters, see you not how
high the sun is getting? I have my locks to curl, and my robe to
prepare for the evening; therefore I must be gone, or I shall be
brown as a withered leaf in this warm light." So, gathering a tiny
mushroom for a parasol, she flew away; Daisy soon followed, and
Violet was left alone.</p>
<p>Then she spread the table afresh, and to it came fearlessly the
busy ant and bee, gay butterfly and bird; even the poor blind mole
and humble worm were not forgotten; and with gentle words she gave
to all, while each learned something of their kind little teacher;
and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all.</p>
<p>The ant and bee learned generosity, the butterfly and bird
contentment, the mole and worm confidence in the love of others;
and each went to their home better for the little time they had
been with Violet.</p>
<p>Evening came, and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good
Queen, who, seated on her mossy throne, looked anxiously upon the
throng below, whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed
like many-colored flowers.</p>
<p>At length she rose, and amid the deep silence spoke thus:—</p>
<p>"Dear children, let us not tire of a good work, hard though it
be and wearisome; think of the many little hearts that in their
sorrow look to us for help. What would the green earth be without
its lovely flowers, and what a lonely home for us! Their beauty
fills our hearts with brightness, and their love with tender
thoughts. Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone?
They give to us their all; ought we not to toil unceasingly, that
they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes? We have tried to
gain the love of the stern Frost-King, but in vain; his heart is
hard as his own icy land; no love can melt, no kindness bring it
back to sunlight and to joy. How then may we keep our frail
blossoms from his cruel spirits? Who will give us counsel? Who will
be our messenger for the last time? Speak, my subjects."</p>
<p>Then a great murmuring arose, and many spoke, some for costlier
gifts, some for war; and the fearful counselled patience and
submission.</p>
<p>Long and eagerly they spoke, and their soft voices rose
high.</p>
<p>Then sweet music sounded on the air, and the loud tones were
hushed, as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should
come.</p>
<p>Through the crowd there came a little form, a wreath of pure
white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round
the gentle face, where a deep blush glowed, as, kneeling at the
throne, little Violet said:—</p>
<p>"Dear Queen, we have bent to the Frost-King's power, we have
borne gifts unto his pride, but have we gone trustingly to him and
spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds? Have we shed the soft light of
unwearied love around his cold heart, and with patient tenderness
shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest
lot?</p>
<p>"Our messengers have gone fearfully, and with cold looks and
courtly words offered him rich gifts, things he cared not for, and
with equal pride has he sent them back.</p>
<p>"Then let me, the weakest of your band, go to him, trusting in
the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart.</p>
<p>"I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers; these will I
wind about him, and their bright faces, looking lovingly in his,
will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind, and their soft breath
steal in like gentle words. Then, when he sees them fading on his
breast, will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them
fresh and lovely? This will I do, dear Queen, and never leave his
dreary home, till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that
bloom in our own dear land."</p>
<p>Silently the Queen had listened, but now, rising and placing her
hand on little Violet's head, she said, turning to the throng
below:— "We in our pride and power have erred, while this, the
weakest and lowliest of our subjects, has from the innocence of her
own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our
train. All who will aid our brave little messenger, lift your
wands, that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of
Love."</p>
<p>Every fairy wand glistened in the air, as with silvery voices
they cried, "Love and little Violet."</p>
<p>Then down from the throne, hand in hand, came the Queen and
Violet, and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil, to weave a
wreath of the fairest flowers. Tenderly they gathered them, with
the night-dew fresh upon their leaves, and as they wove chanted
sweet spells, and whispered fairy blessings on the bright
messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land, that their
gentle kindred might bloom unharmed.</p>
<p>At length it was done; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the
soft starlight, while beside them stood the Fairies, singing to the
music of the wind-harps:—</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">We are sending you, dear flowers,<br />
Forth alone to die,<br />
Where your gentle sisters may not weep<br />
O'er the cold graves where you lie;<br />
But you go to bring them fadeless life<br />
In the bright homes where they dwell,<br />
And you softly smile that 't is so,<br />
As we sadly sing farewell.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">O plead with gentle words for us,<br />
And whisper tenderly<br />
Of generous love to that cold heart,<br />
And it will answer ye;<br />
And though you fade in a dreary home,<br />
Yet loving hearts will tell<br />
Of the joy and peace that you have given:<br />
Flowers, dear flowers, farewell!"</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth,
which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its
breast, while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind, and birds
sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves. Then high
above, on shining wings, soared a little form. The sunlight rested
softly on the silken hair, and the winds fanned lovingly the bright
face, and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on.</p>
<p>Thus went Violet through the clear air, and the earth looked
smiling up to her, as, with the bright wreath folded in her arms,
she flew among the soft, white clouds.</p>
<p>On and on she went, over hill and valley, broad rivers and
rustling woods, till the warm sunlight passed away, the winds grew
cold, and the air thick with falling snow. Then far below she saw
the Frost-King's home. Pillars of hard, gray ice supported the
high, arched roof, hung with crystal icicles. Dreary gardens ay
around, filled with withered flowers and bare, drooping
trees;<br />
while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky, and a cold wind
murmured sadly through the wintry air.</p>
<p>With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more
closely to her breast, and with weary wings flew onward to the
dreary palace.</p>
<p>Here, before the closed doors, stood many forms with dark faces
and harsh, discordant voices, who sternly asked the shivering
little Fairy why she came to them.</p>
<p>Gently she answered, telling them her errand, beseeching them to
let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms. Then
they flung wide the doors, and she passed in.</p>
<p>Walls of ice, carved with strange figures, were around her;
glittering icicles hung from the high roof, and soft, white snow
covered the hard floors. On a throne hung with clouds sat the
Frost-King; a crown of crystals bound his white locks, and a dark
mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold
breast.</p>
<p>His stern face could not stay little Violet, and on through the
long hall she went, heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet,
and the bleak wind that blew around her; while the King with
wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark
walls as she passed.</p>
<p>The flowers, as if they knew their part, unfolded their bright
leaves, and poured forth their sweetest perfume, as, kneeling at
the throne, the brave little Fairy said,—</p>
<p>"O King of blight and sorrow, send me not away till I have
brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright
and beautiful again. Let me call back to the desolate gardens the
fair forms that are gone, and their soft voices blessing you will
bring to your breast a never failing joy. Cast by your icy crown
and sceptre, and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your
heart.</p>
<p>"Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty, and your dim
eyes will rest only on fair forms, while music shall sound through
these dreary halls, and the love of grateful hearts be yours. Have
pity on the gentle flower-spirits, and do not doom them to an early
death, when they might bloom in fadeless beauty, making us wiser by
their gentle teachings, and the earth brighter by their lovely
forms. These fair flowers, with the prayers of all Fairy Land, I
lay before you; O send me not away till they are answered."</p>
<p>And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves,
Violet laid the wreath at his feet, while the golden light grew
ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling
there.</p>
<p>The King's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle
Fairy, and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him; while
their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear, telling of their
dying sisters, and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the
weak and sorrowing. But he drew the dark mantle closer over his
breast and answered coldly,—</p>
<p>"I cannot grant your prayer, little Fairy; it is my will the
flowers should die. Go back to your Queen, and tell her that I
cannot yield my power to please these foolish flowers."</p>
<p>Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne, and with weary
foot went forth again, out into the cold, dark gardens, and still
the golden shadows followed her, and wherever they fell, flowers
bloomed and green leaves rustled.</p>
<p>Then came the Frost-Spirits, and beneath their cold wings the
flowers died, while the Spirits bore Violet to a low, dark cell,
saying as they left her, that their King was angry that she had
dared to stay when he had bid her go.</p>
<p>So all alone she sat, and sad thoughts of her happy home came
back to her, and she wept bitterly. But soon came visions of the
gentle flowers dying in their forest homes, and their voices
ringing in her ear, imploring her to save them. Then she wept no
longer, but patiently awaited what might come.</p>
<p>Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell, and she
heard little voices calling for help, and high up among the heavy
cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves, while
their cruel enemies sat in their nets, watching their pain.</p>
<p>With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them, tenderly
bound up their broken wings, and healed their wounds; while they
lay in the warm light, and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind
deliverer.</p>
<p>Then she went to the ugly brown spiders, and in gentle words
told them, how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin
cloth, and in return the Fairies gave them food, and then how
happily they lived among the green leaves, spinning garments for
their neighbors. "And you too," said she, "shall spin for me, and I
will give you better food than helpless insects. You shall live in
peace, and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern
King; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray, that when
folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it
their home."</p>
<p>And while she gayly sung, the little weavers spun their silken
threads, the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her
head, and over all the golden light shone softly down.</p>
<p>When the Frost-Spirits told their King, he greatly wondered and
often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and
enemies worked peacefully together. Still the light grew brighter,
and floated out into the cold air, where it hung like bright clouds
above the dreary gardens, whence all the Spirits' power could not
drive it; and green leaves budded on the naked trees, and flowers
bloomed; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them, and they bowed
their heads and died.</p>
<p>At length the mantle was finished, and amid the gray threads
shone golden ones, making it bright; and she sent it to the King,
entreating him to wear it, for it would bring peace and love to
dwell within his breast.</p>
<p>But he scornfully threw it aside, and bade his Spirits take her
to a colder cell, deep in the earth; and there with harsh words
they left her.</p>
<p>Still she sang gayly on, and the falling drops kept time so
musically, that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low,
sweet sounds that came stealing up to him.</p>
<p>Thus Violet dwelt, and each day the golden light grew stronger;
and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of
little velvet-coated moles, praying that they might listen to the
sweet music, and lie in the warm light.</p>
<p>"We lead," said they, "a dreary life in the cold earth; the
flower-roots are dead, and no soft dews descend for us to drink, no
little seed or leaf can we find. Ah, good Fairy, let us be your
servants: give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread, and we will
do all in our power to serve you."</p>
<p>And Violet said, Yes; so day after day they labored to make a
pathway through the frozen earth, that she might reach the roots of
the withered flowers; and soon, wherever through the dark galleries
she went, the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers, and they
with new life spread forth in the warm ground, and forced fresh sap
to the blossoms above. Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft
light, and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them, for when
they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left
them.</p>
<p>From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers,
who nodded gayly to him, and in sweet colors strove to tell him of
the good little Spirit, who toiled so faithfully below, that they
might live. And when he turned from the brightness without, to his
stately palace, it seemed so cold and dreary, that he folded
Violet's mantle round him, and sat beneath the faded wreath upon
his ice-carved throne, wondering at the strange warmth that came
from it; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy
from her dismal prison.</p>
<p>Soon they came hastening back, and prayed him to come and see
how lovely the dark cell had grown. The rough floor was spread with
deep green moss, and over wall and roof grew flowery vines, filling
the air with their sweet breath; while above played the clear, soft
light, casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among
the fragrant leaves; and beneath the vines stood Violet, casting
crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and
listened as she sang to them.</p>
<p>When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary
cell than his palace rooms, gentle thoughts within whispered him to
grant her prayer, and let the little Fairy go back to her friends
and home; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid
him see how frail they were, and useless to a King. Then the stern,
cold thoughts came back again, and he harshly bid her follow
him.</p>
<p>With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him, and
before the throne awaited his command. When the King saw how pale
and sad the gentle face had grown, how thin her robe, and weak her
wings, and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and
brightened as they lay upon the wand, which, guided by patient
love, had made his once desolate home so bright, he could not be
cruel to the one who had done so much for him, and in kindly tone
he said,—</p>
<p>"Little Fairy, I offer you two things, and you may choose
between them. If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may
love, will you go back to your own people and leave me and my
Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom? The
earth is broad, and we can find them in any land, then why should
you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe? Will
you do this?"</p>
<p>"Ah!" answered Violet sadly, "do you not know that beneath the
flowers' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and
sorrows like our own? And can I, heedless of their beauty, doom
them to pain and grief, that I might save my own dear blossoms from
the cruel foes to which I leave them? Ah no! sooner would I dwell
for ever in your darkest cell, than lose the love of those warm,
trusting hearts."</p>
<p>"Then listen," said the King, "to the task I give you. You shall
raise up for me a palace fairer than this, and if you can work that
miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown. And now
go forth, and begin your task; my Spirits shall not harm you, and I
will wait till it is done before I blight another flower."</p>
<p>Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart; for
she had toiled so long, her strength was nearly gone. But the
flowers whispered their gratitude, and folded their leaves as if
they blessed her; and when she saw the garden filled with loving
friends, who strove to cheer and thank her for her care, courage
and strength returned; and raising up thick clouds of mist, that
hid her from the wondering flowers, alone and trustingly she began
her work.</p>
<p>As time went by, the Frost-King feared the task had been too
hard for the Fairy; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist,
bright shadows seen to pass within, but the little voice was never
heard. Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden, the
flowers bowed their heads, and all was dark and cold as when the
gentle Fairy came.</p>
<p>And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad; for
he missed the warm light, the happy flowers, and, more than all,
the gay voice and bright face of little Violet. So he wandered
through his dreary palace, wondering how he had been content to
live before without sunlight and love.</p>
<p>And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land, and many
tears were shed, for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all, from the
Queen down to the humblest flower. Sadly they watched over every
bird and blossom which she had loved, and strove to be like her in
kindly words and deeds. They wore cypress wreaths, and spoke of her
as one whom they should never see again.</p>
<p>Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow, till one day there came to
them an unknown messenger, wrapped in a dark mantle, who looked
with wondering eyes on the bright palace, and flower-crowned elves,
who kindly welcomed him, and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to
refresh the weary stranger. Then he told them that he came from the
Frost-King, who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and
see the palace little Violet had built; for the veil of mist would
soon be withdrawn, and as she could not make a fairer home than the
ice-castle, the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear
her home. And while the Elves wept, he told them how patiently she
had toiled, how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and
beautiful.</p>
<p>These and many other things he told them; for little Violet had
won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits, and even when they
killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and
beauty, she spoke gentle words to them, and sought to teach them
how beautiful is love. Long stayed the messenger, and deeper grew
his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home, to toil
in the dreary palace of his cruel master, and suffer cold and
weariness, to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing. When the
Elves had promised they would come, he bade farewell to happy
Fairy-Land, and flew sadly home.</p>
<p>At last the time arrived, and out in his barren garden, under a
canopy of dark clouds, sat the Frost-King before the misty wall,
behind which were heard low, sweet sounds, as of rustling trees and
warbling birds.</p>
<p>Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves. First
the Queen, known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the
bright crown in her hair, beside whom flew a band of Elves in
crimson and gold, making sweet music on their flower-trumpets,
while all around, with smiling faces and bright eyes, fluttered her
loving subjects.</p>
<p>On they came, like a flock of brilliant butterflies, their
shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air;
and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers, and their
sweet voices filled the gardens with music. Like his subjects, the
King looked on the lovely Elves, and no longer wondered that little
Violet wept and longed for her home. Darker and more desolate
seemed his stately home, and when the Fairies asked for flowers, he
felt ashamed that he had none to give them.</p>
<p>At length a warm wind swept through the gardens, and the
mist-clouds passed away, while in silent wonder looked the
Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them.</p>
<p>Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping
boughs made graceful arches, through which the golden light shone
softly, making bright shadows on the deep green moss below, where
the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind, and sang, in their low,
sweet voices, how beautiful is Love.</p>
<p>Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees,
making green pillars of their rough trunks. Fountains threw their
bright waters to the roof, and flocks of silver-winged birds flew
singing among the flowers, or brooded lovingly above their nests.
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves, snow-white
clouds floated in the sunny shy, and the golden light, brighter
than before, shone softly down.</p>
<p>Soon through the long aisles came Violet, flowers and green
leaves rustling as she passed. On she went to the Frost-King's
throne, bearing two crowns, one of sparkling icicles, the other of
pure white lilies, and kneeling before him, said,—</p>
<p>"My task is done, and, thanks to the Spirits of earth and air, I
have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form. You must now
decide. Will you be King of Flower-Land, and own my gentle kindred
for your loving friends? Will you possess unfading peace and joy,
and the grateful love of all the green earth's fragrant children?
Then take this crown of flowers. But if you can find no pleasure
here, go back to your own cold home, and dwell in solitude and
darkness, where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter.</p>
<p>"Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the
happy earth, and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who
would so gladly love and reverence you. Then take this glittering
crown, hard and cold as your own heart will be, if you will shut
out all that is bright and beautiful. Both are before you.
Choose."</p>
<p>The old King looked at the little Fairy, and saw how lovingly
the bright shadows gathered round her, as if to shield her from
every harm; the timid birds nestled in her bosom, and the flowers
grew fairer as she looked upon them; while her gentle friends, with
tears in their bright eyes, folded their hands beseechingly, and
smiled on her.</p>
<p>Kind thought came thronging to his mind, and he turned to look
at the two palaces. Violet's, so fair and beautiful, with its
rustling trees, calm, sunny skies, and happy birds and flowers, all
created by her patient love and care. His own, so cold and dark and
dreary, his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom, no green
trees dwell, or gay birds sing, all desolate and dim;—and while he
gazed, his own Spirits, casting off their dark mantles, knelt
before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the
things the gentle Fairies loved so much. "We have served you long
and faithfully," said they, "give us now our freedom, that we may
learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long.
Grant the little Fairy's prayer; and let her go back to her own
dear home. She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear.
Choose the Flower crown, and we will be the truest subjects you
have ever had."</p>
<p>Then, amid a burst of wild, sweet music, the Frost-King placed
the Flower crown on his head, and knelt to little Violet; while far
and near, over the broad green earth, sounded the voices of
flowers, singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer
wind was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their
gratitude; and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their
slender branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against
her own, and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over
the little feet, and kissed them as they passed.</p>
<p>The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet's
lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the
bright sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer,
danced with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving
eagerness. Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds,
and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the
earth, carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Brighter shone the golden shadows;<br />
On the cool wind softly came<br />
The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,<br />
Singing little Violet's name.<br />
'Mong the green trees was it whispered,<br />
And the bright waves bore it on<br />
To the lonely forest flowers,<br />
Where the glad news had not gone.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,<br />
And his power to harm and blight.<br />
Violet conquered, and his cold heart<br />
Warmed with music, love, and light;<br />
And his fair home, once so dreary,<br />
Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,<br />
Brought a joy that never faded<br />
Through the long bright summer hours.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus, by Violet's magic power,<br />
All dark shadows passed away,<br />
And o'er the home of happy flowers<br />
The golden light for ever lay.<br />
Thus the Fairy mission ended,<br />
And all Flower-Land was taught<br />
The "Power of Love," by gentle deeds<br />
That little Violet wrought.</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this
was the tale "Silver Wing" told.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-13 02:55:38 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:55:39 INFO  - Step 16 - Restart app
2023-04-13 02:56:03 INFO  - Step 17 - Open Books
2023-04-13 02:56:03 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:05 INFO  - Step 18 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-13 02:56:05 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:06 INFO  - Step 19 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-13 02:56:07 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:07 INFO  - Step 20 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-04-13 02:56:08 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-13 02:56:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-13 02:56:09 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-13 02:56:10 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:11 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Flower Fables</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="section_741268" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">THE FROST-KING: OR, THE POWER OF
LOVE.</h3>
<div class="text">
<p>THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast;
each among the leaves of her favorite flower, Daisy, Primrose, and
Violet, were happy as Elves need be.</p>
<p>The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro, and the sun
shone warmly down upon the dewy grass, where butterflies spread
their gay wings, and bees with their deep voices sung among the
flowers; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at
them.</p>
<p>On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast; little cakes of
flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf, beside a crimson strawberry,
which, with sugar from the violet, and cream from the yellow
milkweed, made a fairy meal, and their drink was the dew from the
flowers' bright leaves.</p>
<p>"Ah me," sighed Primrose, throwing herself languidly back, "how
warm the sun grows! give me another piece of strawberry, and then I
must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns. But while I eat, tell
me, dear Violet, why are you all so sad? I have scarce seen a happy
face since my return from Rose Land; dear friend, what means
it?"</p>
<p>"I will tell you," replied little Violet, the tears gathering in
her soft eyes. "Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear
flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King; many ways she
tried, but all have failed. She has sent messengers to his court
with costly gifts; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight,
weary and sad; we have watched over them, heedless of sun or
shower, but still his dark spirits do their work, and we are left
to weep over our blighted blossoms. Thus have we striven, and in
vain; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time.
Therefore are we sad, dear Primrose, for she has toiled and cared
for us, and we can do nothing to help or advise her now."</p>
<p>"It is indeed a cruel thing," replied her friend; "but as we
cannot help it, we must suffer patiently, and not let the sorrows
of others disturb our happiness. But, dear sisters, see you not how
high the sun is getting? I have my locks to curl, and my robe to
prepare for the evening; therefore I must be gone, or I shall be
brown as a withered leaf in this warm light." So, gathering a tiny
mushroom for a parasol, she flew away; Daisy soon followed, and
Violet was left alone.</p>
<p>Then she spread the table afresh, and to it came fearlessly the
busy ant and bee, gay butterfly and bird; even the poor blind mole
and humble worm were not forgotten; and with gentle words she gave
to all, while each learned something of their kind little teacher;
and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all.</p>
<p>The ant and bee learned generosity, the butterfly and bird
contentment, the mole and worm confidence in the love of others;
and each went to their home better for the little time they had
been with Violet.</p>
<p>Evening came, and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good
Queen, who, seated on her mossy throne, looked anxiously upon the
throng below, whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed
like many-colored flowers.</p>
<p>At length she rose, and amid the deep silence spoke thus:—</p>
<p>"Dear children, let us not tire of a good work, hard though it
be and wearisome; think of the many little hearts that in their
sorrow look to us for help. What would the green earth be without
its lovely flowers, and what a lonely home for us! Their beauty
fills our hearts with brightness, and their love with tender
thoughts. Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone?
They give to us their all; ought we not to toil unceasingly, that
they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes? We have tried to
gain the love of the stern Frost-King, but in vain; his heart is
hard as his own icy land; no love can melt, no kindness bring it
back to sunlight and to joy. How then may we keep our frail
blossoms from his cruel spirits? Who will give us counsel? Who will
be our messenger for the last time? Speak, my subjects."</p>
<p>Then a great murmuring arose, and many spoke, some for costlier
gifts, some for war; and the fearful counselled patience and
submission.</p>
<p>Long and eagerly they spoke, and their soft voices rose
high.</p>
<p>Then sweet music sounded on the air, and the loud tones were
hushed, as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should
come.</p>
<p>Through the crowd there came a little form, a wreath of pure
white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round
the gentle face, where a deep blush glowed, as, kneeling at the
throne, little Violet said:—</p>
<p>"Dear Queen, we have bent to the Frost-King's power, we have
borne gifts unto his pride, but have we gone trustingly to him and
spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds? Have we shed the soft light of
unwearied love around his cold heart, and with patient tenderness
shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest
lot?</p>
<p>"Our messengers have gone fearfully, and with cold looks and
courtly words offered him rich gifts, things he cared not for, and
with equal pride has he sent them back.</p>
<p>"Then let me, the weakest of your band, go to him, trusting in
the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart.</p>
<p>"I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers; these will I
wind about him, and their bright faces, looking lovingly in his,
will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind, and their soft breath
steal in like gentle words. Then, when he sees them fading on his
breast, will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them
fresh and lovely? This will I do, dear Queen, and never leave his
dreary home, till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that
bloom in our own dear land."</p>
<p>Silently the Queen had listened, but now, rising and placing her
hand on little Violet's head, she said, turning to the throng
below:— "We in our pride and power have erred, while this, the
weakest and lowliest of our subjects, has from the innocence of her
own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our
train. All who will aid our brave little messenger, lift your
wands, that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of
Love."</p>
<p>Every fairy wand glistened in the air, as with silvery voices
they cried, "Love and little Violet."</p>
<p>Then down from the throne, hand in hand, came the Queen and
Violet, and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil, to weave a
wreath of the fairest flowers. Tenderly they gathered them, with
the night-dew fresh upon their leaves, and as they wove chanted
sweet spells, and whispered fairy blessings on the bright
messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land, that their
gentle kindred might bloom unharmed.</p>
<p>At length it was done; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the
soft starlight, while beside them stood the Fairies, singing to the
music of the wind-harps:—</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">We are sending you, dear flowers,<br />
Forth alone to die,<br />
Where your gentle sisters may not weep<br />
O'er the cold graves where you lie;<br />
But you go to bring them fadeless life<br />
In the bright homes where they dwell,<br />
And you softly smile that 't is so,<br />
As we sadly sing farewell.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">O plead with gentle words for us,<br />
And whisper tenderly<br />
Of generous love to that cold heart,<br />
And it will answer ye;<br />
And though you fade in a dreary home,<br />
Yet loving hearts will tell<br />
Of the joy and peace that you have given:<br />
Flowers, dear flowers, farewell!"</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth,
which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its
breast, while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind, and birds
sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves. Then high
above, on shining wings, soared a little form. The sunlight rested
softly on the silken hair, and the winds fanned lovingly the bright
face, and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on.</p>
<p>Thus went Violet through the clear air, and the earth looked
smiling up to her, as, with the bright wreath folded in her arms,
she flew among the soft, white clouds.</p>
<p>On and on she went, over hill and valley, broad rivers and
rustling woods, till the warm sunlight passed away, the winds grew
cold, and the air thick with falling snow. Then far below she saw
the Frost-King's home. Pillars of hard, gray ice supported the
high, arched roof, hung with crystal icicles. Dreary gardens ay
around, filled with withered flowers and bare, drooping
trees;<br />
while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky, and a cold wind
murmured sadly through the wintry air.</p>
<p>With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more
closely to her breast, and with weary wings flew onward to the
dreary palace.</p>
<p>Here, before the closed doors, stood many forms with dark faces
and harsh, discordant voices, who sternly asked the shivering
little Fairy why she came to them.</p>
<p>Gently she answered, telling them her errand, beseeching them to
let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms. Then
they flung wide the doors, and she passed in.</p>
<p>Walls of ice, carved with strange figures, were around her;
glittering icicles hung from the high roof, and soft, white snow
covered the hard floors. On a throne hung with clouds sat the
Frost-King; a crown of crystals bound his white locks, and a dark
mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold
breast.</p>
<p>His stern face could not stay little Violet, and on through the
long hall she went, heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet,
and the bleak wind that blew around her; while the King with
wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark
walls as she passed.</p>
<p>The flowers, as if they knew their part, unfolded their bright
leaves, and poured forth their sweetest perfume, as, kneeling at
the throne, the brave little Fairy said,—</p>
<p>"O King of blight and sorrow, send me not away till I have
brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright
and beautiful again. Let me call back to the desolate gardens the
fair forms that are gone, and their soft voices blessing you will
bring to your breast a never failing joy. Cast by your icy crown
and sceptre, and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your
heart.</p>
<p>"Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty, and your dim
eyes will rest only on fair forms, while music shall sound through
these dreary halls, and the love of grateful hearts be yours. Have
pity on the gentle flower-spirits, and do not doom them to an early
death, when they might bloom in fadeless beauty, making us wiser by
their gentle teachings, and the earth brighter by their lovely
forms. These fair flowers, with the prayers of all Fairy Land, I
lay before you; O send me not away till they are answered."</p>
<p>And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves,
Violet laid the wreath at his feet, while the golden light grew
ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling
there.</p>
<p>The King's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle
Fairy, and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him; while
their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear, telling of their
dying sisters, and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the
weak and sorrowing. But he drew the dark mantle closer over his
breast and answered coldly,—</p>
<p>"I cannot grant your prayer, little Fairy; it is my will the
flowers should die. Go back to your Queen, and tell her that I
cannot yield my power to please these foolish flowers."</p>
<p>Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne, and with weary
foot went forth again, out into the cold, dark gardens, and still
the golden shadows followed her, and wherever they fell, flowers
bloomed and green leaves rustled.</p>
<p>Then came the Frost-Spirits, and beneath their cold wings the
flowers died, while the Spirits bore Violet to a low, dark cell,
saying as they left her, that their King was angry that she had
dared to stay when he had bid her go.</p>
<p>So all alone she sat, and sad thoughts of her happy home came
back to her, and she wept bitterly. But soon came visions of the
gentle flowers dying in their forest homes, and their voices
ringing in her ear, imploring her to save them. Then she wept no
longer, but patiently awaited what might come.</p>
<p>Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell, and she
heard little voices calling for help, and high up among the heavy
cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves, while
their cruel enemies sat in their nets, watching their pain.</p>
<p>With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them, tenderly
bound up their broken wings, and healed their wounds; while they
lay in the warm light, and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind
deliverer.</p>
<p>Then she went to the ugly brown spiders, and in gentle words
told them, how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin
cloth, and in return the Fairies gave them food, and then how
happily they lived among the green leaves, spinning garments for
their neighbors. "And you too," said she, "shall spin for me, and I
will give you better food than helpless insects. You shall live in
peace, and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern
King; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray, that when
folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it
their home."</p>
<p>And while she gayly sung, the little weavers spun their silken
threads, the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her
head, and over all the golden light shone softly down.</p>
<p>When the Frost-Spirits told their King, he greatly wondered and
often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and
enemies worked peacefully together. Still the light grew brighter,
and floated out into the cold air, where it hung like bright clouds
above the dreary gardens, whence all the Spirits' power could not
drive it; and green leaves budded on the naked trees, and flowers
bloomed; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them, and they bowed
their heads and died.</p>
<p>At length the mantle was finished, and amid the gray threads
shone golden ones, making it bright; and she sent it to the King,
entreating him to wear it, for it would bring peace and love to
dwell within his breast.</p>
<p>But he scornfully threw it aside, and bade his Spirits take her
to a colder cell, deep in the earth; and there with harsh words
they left her.</p>
<p>Still she sang gayly on, and the falling drops kept time so
musically, that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low,
sweet sounds that came stealing up to him.</p>
<p>Thus Violet dwelt, and each day the golden light grew stronger;
and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of
little velvet-coated moles, praying that they might listen to the
sweet music, and lie in the warm light.</p>
<p>"We lead," said they, "a dreary life in the cold earth; the
flower-roots are dead, and no soft dews descend for us to drink, no
little seed or leaf can we find. Ah, good Fairy, let us be your
servants: give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread, and we will
do all in our power to serve you."</p>
<p>And Violet said, Yes; so day after day they labored to make a
pathway through the frozen earth, that she might reach the roots of
the withered flowers; and soon, wherever through the dark galleries
she went, the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers, and they
with new life spread forth in the warm ground, and forced fresh sap
to the blossoms above. Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft
light, and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them, for when
they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left
them.</p>
<p>From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers,
who nodded gayly to him, and in sweet colors strove to tell him of
the good little Spirit, who toiled so faithfully below, that they
might live. And when he turned from the brightness without, to his
stately palace, it seemed so cold and dreary, that he folded
Violet's mantle round him, and sat beneath the faded wreath upon
his ice-carved throne, wondering at the strange warmth that came
from it; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy
from her dismal prison.</p>
<p>Soon they came hastening back, and prayed him to come and see
how lovely the dark cell had grown. The rough floor was spread with
deep green moss, and over wall and roof grew flowery vines, filling
the air with their sweet breath; while above played the clear, soft
light, casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among
the fragrant leaves; and beneath the vines stood Violet, casting
crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and
listened as she sang to them.</p>
<p>When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary
cell than his palace rooms, gentle thoughts within whispered him to
grant her prayer, and let the little Fairy go back to her friends
and home; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid
him see how frail they were, and useless to a King. Then the stern,
cold thoughts came back again, and he harshly bid her follow
him.</p>
<p>With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him, and
before the throne awaited his command. When the King saw how pale
and sad the gentle face had grown, how thin her robe, and weak her
wings, and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and
brightened as they lay upon the wand, which, guided by patient
love, had made his once desolate home so bright, he could not be
cruel to the one who had done so much for him, and in kindly tone
he said,—</p>
<p>"Little Fairy, I offer you two things, and you may choose
between them. If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may
love, will you go back to your own people and leave me and my
Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom? The
earth is broad, and we can find them in any land, then why should
you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe? Will
you do this?"</p>
<p>"Ah!" answered Violet sadly, "do you not know that beneath the
flowers' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and
sorrows like our own? And can I, heedless of their beauty, doom
them to pain and grief, that I might save my own dear blossoms from
the cruel foes to which I leave them? Ah no! sooner would I dwell
for ever in your darkest cell, than lose the love of those warm,
trusting hearts."</p>
<p>"Then listen," said the King, "to the task I give you. You shall
raise up for me a palace fairer than this, and if you can work that
miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown. And now
go forth, and begin your task; my Spirits shall not harm you, and I
will wait till it is done before I blight another flower."</p>
<p>Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart; for
she had toiled so long, her strength was nearly gone. But the
flowers whispered their gratitude, and folded their leaves as if
they blessed her; and when she saw the garden filled with loving
friends, who strove to cheer and thank her for her care, courage
and strength returned; and raising up thick clouds of mist, that
hid her from the wondering flowers, alone and trustingly she began
her work.</p>
<p>As time went by, the Frost-King feared the task had been too
hard for the Fairy; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist,
bright shadows seen to pass within, but the little voice was never
heard. Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden, the
flowers bowed their heads, and all was dark and cold as when the
gentle Fairy came.</p>
<p>And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad; for
he missed the warm light, the happy flowers, and, more than all,
the gay voice and bright face of little Violet. So he wandered
through his dreary palace, wondering how he had been content to
live before without sunlight and love.</p>
<p>And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land, and many
tears were shed, for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all, from the
Queen down to the humblest flower. Sadly they watched over every
bird and blossom which she had loved, and strove to be like her in
kindly words and deeds. They wore cypress wreaths, and spoke of her
as one whom they should never see again.</p>
<p>Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow, till one day there came to
them an unknown messenger, wrapped in a dark mantle, who looked
with wondering eyes on the bright palace, and flower-crowned elves,
who kindly welcomed him, and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to
refresh the weary stranger. Then he told them that he came from the
Frost-King, who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and
see the palace little Violet had built; for the veil of mist would
soon be withdrawn, and as she could not make a fairer home than the
ice-castle, the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear
her home. And while the Elves wept, he told them how patiently she
had toiled, how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and
beautiful.</p>
<p>These and many other things he told them; for little Violet had
won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits, and even when they
killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and
beauty, she spoke gentle words to them, and sought to teach them
how beautiful is love. Long stayed the messenger, and deeper grew
his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home, to toil
in the dreary palace of his cruel master, and suffer cold and
weariness, to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing. When the
Elves had promised they would come, he bade farewell to happy
Fairy-Land, and flew sadly home.</p>
<p>At last the time arrived, and out in his barren garden, under a
canopy of dark clouds, sat the Frost-King before the misty wall,
behind which were heard low, sweet sounds, as of rustling trees and
warbling birds.</p>
<p>Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves. First
the Queen, known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the
bright crown in her hair, beside whom flew a band of Elves in
crimson and gold, making sweet music on their flower-trumpets,
while all around, with smiling faces and bright eyes, fluttered her
loving subjects.</p>
<p>On they came, like a flock of brilliant butterflies, their
shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air;
and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers, and their
sweet voices filled the gardens with music. Like his subjects, the
King looked on the lovely Elves, and no longer wondered that little
Violet wept and longed for her home. Darker and more desolate
seemed his stately home, and when the Fairies asked for flowers, he
felt ashamed that he had none to give them.</p>
<p>At length a warm wind swept through the gardens, and the
mist-clouds passed away, while in silent wonder looked the
Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them.</p>
<p>Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping
boughs made graceful arches, through which the golden light shone
softly, making bright shadows on the deep green moss below, where
the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind, and sang, in their low,
sweet voices, how beautiful is Love.</p>
<p>Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees,
making green pillars of their rough trunks. Fountains threw their
bright waters to the roof, and flocks of silver-winged birds flew
singing among the flowers, or brooded lovingly above their nests.
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves, snow-white
clouds floated in the sunny shy, and the golden light, brighter
than before, shone softly down.</p>
<p>Soon through the long aisles came Violet, flowers and green
leaves rustling as she passed. On she went to the Frost-King's
throne, bearing two crowns, one of sparkling icicles, the other of
pure white lilies, and kneeling before him, said,—</p>
<p>"My task is done, and, thanks to the Spirits of earth and air, I
have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form. You must now
decide. Will you be King of Flower-Land, and own my gentle kindred
for your loving friends? Will you possess unfading peace and joy,
and the grateful love of all the green earth's fragrant children?
Then take this crown of flowers. But if you can find no pleasure
here, go back to your own cold home, and dwell in solitude and
darkness, where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter.</p>
<p>"Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the
happy earth, and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who
would so gladly love and reverence you. Then take this glittering
crown, hard and cold as your own heart will be, if you will shut
out all that is bright and beautiful. Both are before you.
Choose."</p>
<p>The old King looked at the little Fairy, and saw how lovingly
the bright shadows gathered round her, as if to shield her from
every harm; the timid birds nestled in her bosom, and the flowers
grew fairer as she looked upon them; while her gentle friends, with
tears in their bright eyes, folded their hands beseechingly, and
smiled on her.</p>
<p>Kind thought came thronging to his mind, and he turned to look
at the two palaces. Violet's, so fair and beautiful, with its
rustling trees, calm, sunny skies, and happy birds and flowers, all
created by her patient love and care. His own, so cold and dark and
dreary, his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom, no green
trees dwell, or gay birds sing, all desolate and dim;—and while he
gazed, his own Spirits, casting off their dark mantles, knelt
before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the
things the gentle Fairies loved so much. "We have served you long
and faithfully," said they, "give us now our freedom, that we may
learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long.
Grant the little Fairy's prayer; and let her go back to her own
dear home. She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear.
Choose the Flower crown, and we will be the truest subjects you
have ever had."</p>
<p>Then, amid a burst of wild, sweet music, the Frost-King placed
the Flower crown on his head, and knelt to little Violet; while far
and near, over the broad green earth, sounded the voices of
flowers, singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer
wind was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their
gratitude; and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their
slender branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against
her own, and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over
the little feet, and kissed them as they passed.</p>
<p>The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet's
lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the
bright sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer,
danced with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving
eagerness. Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds,
and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the
earth, carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Brighter shone the golden shadows;<br />
On the cool wind softly came<br />
The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,<br />
Singing little Violet's name.<br />
'Mong the green trees was it whispered,<br />
And the bright waves bore it on<br />
To the lonely forest flowers,<br />
Where the glad news had not gone.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,<br />
And his power to harm and blight.<br />
Violet conquered, and his cold heart<br />
Warmed with music, love, and light;<br />
And his fair home, once so dreary,<br />
Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,<br />
Brought a joy that never faded<br />
Through the long bright summer hours.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus, by Violet's magic power,<br />
All dark shadows passed away,<br />
And o'er the home of happy flowers<br />
The golden light for ever lay.<br />
Thus the Fairy mission ended,<br />
And all Flower-Land was taught<br />
The "Power of Love," by gentle deeds<br />
That little Violet wrought.</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this
was the tale "Silver Wing" told.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-13 02:56:11 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:12 INFO  - Step 21 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-13 02:56:12 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:13 INFO  - Step 22 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-13 02:56:15 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:16 INFO  - Step 23 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-04-13 02:56:16 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-13 02:56:16 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-13 02:56:17 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:18 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Flower Fables</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="section_741268" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">THE FROST-KING: OR, THE POWER OF
LOVE.</h3>
<div class="text">
<p>THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast;
each among the leaves of her favorite flower, Daisy, Primrose, and
Violet, were happy as Elves need be.</p>
<p>The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro, and the sun
shone warmly down upon the dewy grass, where butterflies spread
their gay wings, and bees with their deep voices sung among the
flowers; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at
them.</p>
<p>On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast; little cakes of
flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf, beside a crimson strawberry,
which, with sugar from the violet, and cream from the yellow
milkweed, made a fairy meal, and their drink was the dew from the
flowers' bright leaves.</p>
<p>"Ah me," sighed Primrose, throwing herself languidly back, "how
warm the sun grows! give me another piece of strawberry, and then I
must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns. But while I eat, tell
me, dear Violet, why are you all so sad? I have scarce seen a happy
face since my return from Rose Land; dear friend, what means
it?"</p>
<p>"I will tell you," replied little Violet, the tears gathering in
her soft eyes. "Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear
flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King; many ways she
tried, but all have failed. She has sent messengers to his court
with costly gifts; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight,
weary and sad; we have watched over them, heedless of sun or
shower, but still his dark spirits do their work, and we are left
to weep over our blighted blossoms. Thus have we striven, and in
vain; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time.
Therefore are we sad, dear Primrose, for she has toiled and cared
for us, and we can do nothing to help or advise her now."</p>
<p>"It is indeed a cruel thing," replied her friend; "but as we
cannot help it, we must suffer patiently, and not let the sorrows
of others disturb our happiness. But, dear sisters, see you not how
high the sun is getting? I have my locks to curl, and my robe to
prepare for the evening; therefore I must be gone, or I shall be
brown as a withered leaf in this warm light." So, gathering a tiny
mushroom for a parasol, she flew away; Daisy soon followed, and
Violet was left alone.</p>
<p>Then she spread the table afresh, and to it came fearlessly the
busy ant and bee, gay butterfly and bird; even the poor blind mole
and humble worm were not forgotten; and with gentle words she gave
to all, while each learned something of their kind little teacher;
and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all.</p>
<p>The ant and bee learned generosity, the butterfly and bird
contentment, the mole and worm confidence in the love of others;
and each went to their home better for the little time they had
been with Violet.</p>
<p>Evening came, and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good
Queen, who, seated on her mossy throne, looked anxiously upon the
throng below, whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed
like many-colored flowers.</p>
<p>At length she rose, and amid the deep silence spoke thus:—</p>
<p>"Dear children, let us not tire of a good work, hard though it
be and wearisome; think of the many little hearts that in their
sorrow look to us for help. What would the green earth be without
its lovely flowers, and what a lonely home for us! Their beauty
fills our hearts with brightness, and their love with tender
thoughts. Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone?
They give to us their all; ought we not to toil unceasingly, that
they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes? We have tried to
gain the love of the stern Frost-King, but in vain; his heart is
hard as his own icy land; no love can melt, no kindness bring it
back to sunlight and to joy. How then may we keep our frail
blossoms from his cruel spirits? Who will give us counsel? Who will
be our messenger for the last time? Speak, my subjects."</p>
<p>Then a great murmuring arose, and many spoke, some for costlier
gifts, some for war; and the fearful counselled patience and
submission.</p>
<p>Long and eagerly they spoke, and their soft voices rose
high.</p>
<p>Then sweet music sounded on the air, and the loud tones were
hushed, as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should
come.</p>
<p>Through the crowd there came a little form, a wreath of pure
white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round
the gentle face, where a deep blush glowed, as, kneeling at the
throne, little Violet said:—</p>
<p>"Dear Queen, we have bent to the Frost-King's power, we have
borne gifts unto his pride, but have we gone trustingly to him and
spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds? Have we shed the soft light of
unwearied love around his cold heart, and with patient tenderness
shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest
lot?</p>
<p>"Our messengers have gone fearfully, and with cold looks and
courtly words offered him rich gifts, things he cared not for, and
with equal pride has he sent them back.</p>
<p>"Then let me, the weakest of your band, go to him, trusting in
the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart.</p>
<p>"I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers; these will I
wind about him, and their bright faces, looking lovingly in his,
will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind, and their soft breath
steal in like gentle words. Then, when he sees them fading on his
breast, will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them
fresh and lovely? This will I do, dear Queen, and never leave his
dreary home, till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that
bloom in our own dear land."</p>
<p>Silently the Queen had listened, but now, rising and placing her
hand on little Violet's head, she said, turning to the throng
below:— "We in our pride and power have erred, while this, the
weakest and lowliest of our subjects, has from the innocence of her
own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our
train. All who will aid our brave little messenger, lift your
wands, that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of
Love."</p>
<p>Every fairy wand glistened in the air, as with silvery voices
they cried, "Love and little Violet."</p>
<p>Then down from the throne, hand in hand, came the Queen and
Violet, and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil, to weave a
wreath of the fairest flowers. Tenderly they gathered them, with
the night-dew fresh upon their leaves, and as they wove chanted
sweet spells, and whispered fairy blessings on the bright
messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land, that their
gentle kindred might bloom unharmed.</p>
<p>At length it was done; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the
soft starlight, while beside them stood the Fairies, singing to the
music of the wind-harps:—</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">We are sending you, dear flowers,<br />
Forth alone to die,<br />
Where your gentle sisters may not weep<br />
O'er the cold graves where you lie;<br />
But you go to bring them fadeless life<br />
In the bright homes where they dwell,<br />
And you softly smile that 't is so,<br />
As we sadly sing farewell.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">O plead with gentle words for us,<br />
And whisper tenderly<br />
Of generous love to that cold heart,<br />
And it will answer ye;<br />
And though you fade in a dreary home,<br />
Yet loving hearts will tell<br />
Of the joy and peace that you have given:<br />
Flowers, dear flowers, farewell!"</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth,
which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its
breast, while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind, and birds
sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves. Then high
above, on shining wings, soared a little form. The sunlight rested
softly on the silken hair, and the winds fanned lovingly the bright
face, and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on.</p>
<p>Thus went Violet through the clear air, and the earth looked
smiling up to her, as, with the bright wreath folded in her arms,
she flew among the soft, white clouds.</p>
<p>On and on she went, over hill and valley, broad rivers and
rustling woods, till the warm sunlight passed away, the winds grew
cold, and the air thick with falling snow. Then far below she saw
the Frost-King's home. Pillars of hard, gray ice supported the
high, arched roof, hung with crystal icicles. Dreary gardens ay
around, filled with withered flowers and bare, drooping
trees;<br />
while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky, and a cold wind
murmured sadly through the wintry air.</p>
<p>With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more
closely to her breast, and with weary wings flew onward to the
dreary palace.</p>
<p>Here, before the closed doors, stood many forms with dark faces
and harsh, discordant voices, who sternly asked the shivering
little Fairy why she came to them.</p>
<p>Gently she answered, telling them her errand, beseeching them to
let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms. Then
they flung wide the doors, and she passed in.</p>
<p>Walls of ice, carved with strange figures, were around her;
glittering icicles hung from the high roof, and soft, white snow
covered the hard floors. On a throne hung with clouds sat the
Frost-King; a crown of crystals bound his white locks, and a dark
mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold
breast.</p>
<p>His stern face could not stay little Violet, and on through the
long hall she went, heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet,
and the bleak wind that blew around her; while the King with
wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark
walls as she passed.</p>
<p>The flowers, as if they knew their part, unfolded their bright
leaves, and poured forth their sweetest perfume, as, kneeling at
the throne, the brave little Fairy said,—</p>
<p>"O King of blight and sorrow, send me not away till I have
brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright
and beautiful again. Let me call back to the desolate gardens the
fair forms that are gone, and their soft voices blessing you will
bring to your breast a never failing joy. Cast by your icy crown
and sceptre, and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your
heart.</p>
<p>"Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty, and your dim
eyes will rest only on fair forms, while music shall sound through
these dreary halls, and the love of grateful hearts be yours. Have
pity on the gentle flower-spirits, and do not doom them to an early
death, when they might bloom in fadeless beauty, making us wiser by
their gentle teachings, and the earth brighter by their lovely
forms. These fair flowers, with the prayers of all Fairy Land, I
lay before you; O send me not away till they are answered."</p>
<p>And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves,
Violet laid the wreath at his feet, while the golden light grew
ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling
there.</p>
<p>The King's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle
Fairy, and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him; while
their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear, telling of their
dying sisters, and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the
weak and sorrowing. But he drew the dark mantle closer over his
breast and answered coldly,—</p>
<p>"I cannot grant your prayer, little Fairy; it is my will the
flowers should die. Go back to your Queen, and tell her that I
cannot yield my power to please these foolish flowers."</p>
<p>Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne, and with weary
foot went forth again, out into the cold, dark gardens, and still
the golden shadows followed her, and wherever they fell, flowers
bloomed and green leaves rustled.</p>
<p>Then came the Frost-Spirits, and beneath their cold wings the
flowers died, while the Spirits bore Violet to a low, dark cell,
saying as they left her, that their King was angry that she had
dared to stay when he had bid her go.</p>
<p>So all alone she sat, and sad thoughts of her happy home came
back to her, and she wept bitterly. But soon came visions of the
gentle flowers dying in their forest homes, and their voices
ringing in her ear, imploring her to save them. Then she wept no
longer, but patiently awaited what might come.</p>
<p>Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell, and she
heard little voices calling for help, and high up among the heavy
cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves, while
their cruel enemies sat in their nets, watching their pain.</p>
<p>With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them, tenderly
bound up their broken wings, and healed their wounds; while they
lay in the warm light, and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind
deliverer.</p>
<p>Then she went to the ugly brown spiders, and in gentle words
told them, how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin
cloth, and in return the Fairies gave them food, and then how
happily they lived among the green leaves, spinning garments for
their neighbors. "And you too," said she, "shall spin for me, and I
will give you better food than helpless insects. You shall live in
peace, and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern
King; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray, that when
folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it
their home."</p>
<p>And while she gayly sung, the little weavers spun their silken
threads, the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her
head, and over all the golden light shone softly down.</p>
<p>When the Frost-Spirits told their King, he greatly wondered and
often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and
enemies worked peacefully together. Still the light grew brighter,
and floated out into the cold air, where it hung like bright clouds
above the dreary gardens, whence all the Spirits' power could not
drive it; and green leaves budded on the naked trees, and flowers
bloomed; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them, and they bowed
their heads and died.</p>
<p>At length the mantle was finished, and amid the gray threads
shone golden ones, making it bright; and she sent it to the King,
entreating him to wear it, for it would bring peace and love to
dwell within his breast.</p>
<p>But he scornfully threw it aside, and bade his Spirits take her
to a colder cell, deep in the earth; and there with harsh words
they left her.</p>
<p>Still she sang gayly on, and the falling drops kept time so
musically, that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low,
sweet sounds that came stealing up to him.</p>
<p>Thus Violet dwelt, and each day the golden light grew stronger;
and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of
little velvet-coated moles, praying that they might listen to the
sweet music, and lie in the warm light.</p>
<p>"We lead," said they, "a dreary life in the cold earth; the
flower-roots are dead, and no soft dews descend for us to drink, no
little seed or leaf can we find. Ah, good Fairy, let us be your
servants: give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread, and we will
do all in our power to serve you."</p>
<p>And Violet said, Yes; so day after day they labored to make a
pathway through the frozen earth, that she might reach the roots of
the withered flowers; and soon, wherever through the dark galleries
she went, the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers, and they
with new life spread forth in the warm ground, and forced fresh sap
to the blossoms above. Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft
light, and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them, for when
they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left
them.</p>
<p>From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers,
who nodded gayly to him, and in sweet colors strove to tell him of
the good little Spirit, who toiled so faithfully below, that they
might live. And when he turned from the brightness without, to his
stately palace, it seemed so cold and dreary, that he folded
Violet's mantle round him, and sat beneath the faded wreath upon
his ice-carved throne, wondering at the strange warmth that came
from it; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy
from her dismal prison.</p>
<p>Soon they came hastening back, and prayed him to come and see
how lovely the dark cell had grown. The rough floor was spread with
deep green moss, and over wall and roof grew flowery vines, filling
the air with their sweet breath; while above played the clear, soft
light, casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among
the fragrant leaves; and beneath the vines stood Violet, casting
crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and
listened as she sang to them.</p>
<p>When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary
cell than his palace rooms, gentle thoughts within whispered him to
grant her prayer, and let the little Fairy go back to her friends
and home; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid
him see how frail they were, and useless to a King. Then the stern,
cold thoughts came back again, and he harshly bid her follow
him.</p>
<p>With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him, and
before the throne awaited his command. When the King saw how pale
and sad the gentle face had grown, how thin her robe, and weak her
wings, and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and
brightened as they lay upon the wand, which, guided by patient
love, had made his once desolate home so bright, he could not be
cruel to the one who had done so much for him, and in kindly tone
he said,—</p>
<p>"Little Fairy, I offer you two things, and you may choose
between them. If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may
love, will you go back to your own people and leave me and my
Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom? The
earth is broad, and we can find them in any land, then why should
you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe? Will
you do this?"</p>
<p>"Ah!" answered Violet sadly, "do you not know that beneath the
flowers' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and
sorrows like our own? And can I, heedless of their beauty, doom
them to pain and grief, that I might save my own dear blossoms from
the cruel foes to which I leave them? Ah no! sooner would I dwell
for ever in your darkest cell, than lose the love of those warm,
trusting hearts."</p>
<p>"Then listen," said the King, "to the task I give you. You shall
raise up for me a palace fairer than this, and if you can work that
miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown. And now
go forth, and begin your task; my Spirits shall not harm you, and I
will wait till it is done before I blight another flower."</p>
<p>Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart; for
she had toiled so long, her strength was nearly gone. But the
flowers whispered their gratitude, and folded their leaves as if
they blessed her; and when she saw the garden filled with loving
friends, who strove to cheer and thank her for her care, courage
and strength returned; and raising up thick clouds of mist, that
hid her from the wondering flowers, alone and trustingly she began
her work.</p>
<p>As time went by, the Frost-King feared the task had been too
hard for the Fairy; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist,
bright shadows seen to pass within, but the little voice was never
heard. Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden, the
flowers bowed their heads, and all was dark and cold as when the
gentle Fairy came.</p>
<p>And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad; for
he missed the warm light, the happy flowers, and, more than all,
the gay voice and bright face of little Violet. So he wandered
through his dreary palace, wondering how he had been content to
live before without sunlight and love.</p>
<p>And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land, and many
tears were shed, for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all, from the
Queen down to the humblest flower. Sadly they watched over every
bird and blossom which she had loved, and strove to be like her in
kindly words and deeds. They wore cypress wreaths, and spoke of her
as one whom they should never see again.</p>
<p>Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow, till one day there came to
them an unknown messenger, wrapped in a dark mantle, who looked
with wondering eyes on the bright palace, and flower-crowned elves,
who kindly welcomed him, and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to
refresh the weary stranger. Then he told them that he came from the
Frost-King, who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and
see the palace little Violet had built; for the veil of mist would
soon be withdrawn, and as she could not make a fairer home than the
ice-castle, the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear
her home. And while the Elves wept, he told them how patiently she
had toiled, how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and
beautiful.</p>
<p>These and many other things he told them; for little Violet had
won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits, and even when they
killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and
beauty, she spoke gentle words to them, and sought to teach them
how beautiful is love. Long stayed the messenger, and deeper grew
his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home, to toil
in the dreary palace of his cruel master, and suffer cold and
weariness, to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing. When the
Elves had promised they would come, he bade farewell to happy
Fairy-Land, and flew sadly home.</p>
<p>At last the time arrived, and out in his barren garden, under a
canopy of dark clouds, sat the Frost-King before the misty wall,
behind which were heard low, sweet sounds, as of rustling trees and
warbling birds.</p>
<p>Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves. First
the Queen, known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the
bright crown in her hair, beside whom flew a band of Elves in
crimson and gold, making sweet music on their flower-trumpets,
while all around, with smiling faces and bright eyes, fluttered her
loving subjects.</p>
<p>On they came, like a flock of brilliant butterflies, their
shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air;
and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers, and their
sweet voices filled the gardens with music. Like his subjects, the
King looked on the lovely Elves, and no longer wondered that little
Violet wept and longed for her home. Darker and more desolate
seemed his stately home, and when the Fairies asked for flowers, he
felt ashamed that he had none to give them.</p>
<p>At length a warm wind swept through the gardens, and the
mist-clouds passed away, while in silent wonder looked the
Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them.</p>
<p>Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping
boughs made graceful arches, through which the golden light shone
softly, making bright shadows on the deep green moss below, where
the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind, and sang, in their low,
sweet voices, how beautiful is Love.</p>
<p>Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees,
making green pillars of their rough trunks. Fountains threw their
bright waters to the roof, and flocks of silver-winged birds flew
singing among the flowers, or brooded lovingly above their nests.
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves, snow-white
clouds floated in the sunny shy, and the golden light, brighter
than before, shone softly down.</p>
<p>Soon through the long aisles came Violet, flowers and green
leaves rustling as she passed. On she went to the Frost-King's
throne, bearing two crowns, one of sparkling icicles, the other of
pure white lilies, and kneeling before him, said,—</p>
<p>"My task is done, and, thanks to the Spirits of earth and air, I
have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form. You must now
decide. Will you be King of Flower-Land, and own my gentle kindred
for your loving friends? Will you possess unfading peace and joy,
and the grateful love of all the green earth's fragrant children?
Then take this crown of flowers. But if you can find no pleasure
here, go back to your own cold home, and dwell in solitude and
darkness, where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter.</p>
<p>"Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the
happy earth, and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who
would so gladly love and reverence you. Then take this glittering
crown, hard and cold as your own heart will be, if you will shut
out all that is bright and beautiful. Both are before you.
Choose."</p>
<p>The old King looked at the little Fairy, and saw how lovingly
the bright shadows gathered round her, as if to shield her from
every harm; the timid birds nestled in her bosom, and the flowers
grew fairer as she looked upon them; while her gentle friends, with
tears in their bright eyes, folded their hands beseechingly, and
smiled on her.</p>
<p>Kind thought came thronging to his mind, and he turned to look
at the two palaces. Violet's, so fair and beautiful, with its
rustling trees, calm, sunny skies, and happy birds and flowers, all
created by her patient love and care. His own, so cold and dark and
dreary, his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom, no green
trees dwell, or gay birds sing, all desolate and dim;—and while he
gazed, his own Spirits, casting off their dark mantles, knelt
before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the
things the gentle Fairies loved so much. "We have served you long
and faithfully," said they, "give us now our freedom, that we may
learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long.
Grant the little Fairy's prayer; and let her go back to her own
dear home. She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear.
Choose the Flower crown, and we will be the truest subjects you
have ever had."</p>
<p>Then, amid a burst of wild, sweet music, the Frost-King placed
the Flower crown on his head, and knelt to little Violet; while far
and near, over the broad green earth, sounded the voices of
flowers, singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer
wind was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their
gratitude; and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their
slender branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against
her own, and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over
the little feet, and kissed them as they passed.</p>
<p>The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet's
lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the
bright sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer,
danced with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving
eagerness. Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds,
and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the
earth, carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Brighter shone the golden shadows;<br />
On the cool wind softly came<br />
The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,<br />
Singing little Violet's name.<br />
'Mong the green trees was it whispered,<br />
And the bright waves bore it on<br />
To the lonely forest flowers,<br />
Where the glad news had not gone.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,<br />
And his power to harm and blight.<br />
Violet conquered, and his cold heart<br />
Warmed with music, love, and light;<br />
And his fair home, once so dreary,<br />
Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,<br />
Brought a joy that never faded<br />
Through the long bright summer hours.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus, by Violet's magic power,<br />
All dark shadows passed away,<br />
And o'er the home of happy flowers<br />
The golden light for ever lay.<br />
Thus the Fairy mission ended,<br />
And all Flower-Land was taught<br />
The "Power of Love," by gentle deeds<br />
That little Violet wrought.</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this
was the tale "Silver Wing" told.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-13 02:56:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:18 INFO  - Step 24 - Open font settings
2023-04-13 02:56:19 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:20 INFO  - Step 25 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA
2023-04-13 02:56:20 INFO  - Button 'setThemeSepia' :: Clicking
2023-04-13 02:56:21 INFO  - Step 26 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA background is correct
2023-04-13 02:56:21 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-13 02:56:21 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-13 02:56:22 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:22 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Flower Fables</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="section_741268" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">THE FROST-KING: OR, THE POWER OF
LOVE.</h3>
<div class="text">
<p>THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast;
each among the leaves of her favorite flower, Daisy, Primrose, and
Violet, were happy as Elves need be.</p>
<p>The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro, and the sun
shone warmly down upon the dewy grass, where butterflies spread
their gay wings, and bees with their deep voices sung among the
flowers; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at
them.</p>
<p>On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast; little cakes of
flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf, beside a crimson strawberry,
which, with sugar from the violet, and cream from the yellow
milkweed, made a fairy meal, and their drink was the dew from the
flowers' bright leaves.</p>
<p>"Ah me," sighed Primrose, throwing herself languidly back, "how
warm the sun grows! give me another piece of strawberry, and then I
must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns. But while I eat, tell
me, dear Violet, why are you all so sad? I have scarce seen a happy
face since my return from Rose Land; dear friend, what means
it?"</p>
<p>"I will tell you," replied little Violet, the tears gathering in
her soft eyes. "Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear
flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King; many ways she
tried, but all have failed. She has sent messengers to his court
with costly gifts; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight,
weary and sad; we have watched over them, heedless of sun or
shower, but still his dark spirits do their work, and we are left
to weep over our blighted blossoms. Thus have we striven, and in
vain; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time.
Therefore are we sad, dear Primrose, for she has toiled and cared
for us, and we can do nothing to help or advise her now."</p>
<p>"It is indeed a cruel thing," replied her friend; "but as we
cannot help it, we must suffer patiently, and not let the sorrows
of others disturb our happiness. But, dear sisters, see you not how
high the sun is getting? I have my locks to curl, and my robe to
prepare for the evening; therefore I must be gone, or I shall be
brown as a withered leaf in this warm light." So, gathering a tiny
mushroom for a parasol, she flew away; Daisy soon followed, and
Violet was left alone.</p>
<p>Then she spread the table afresh, and to it came fearlessly the
busy ant and bee, gay butterfly and bird; even the poor blind mole
and humble worm were not forgotten; and with gentle words she gave
to all, while each learned something of their kind little teacher;
and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all.</p>
<p>The ant and bee learned generosity, the butterfly and bird
contentment, the mole and worm confidence in the love of others;
and each went to their home better for the little time they had
been with Violet.</p>
<p>Evening came, and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good
Queen, who, seated on her mossy throne, looked anxiously upon the
throng below, whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed
like many-colored flowers.</p>
<p>At length she rose, and amid the deep silence spoke thus:—</p>
<p>"Dear children, let us not tire of a good work, hard though it
be and wearisome; think of the many little hearts that in their
sorrow look to us for help. What would the green earth be without
its lovely flowers, and what a lonely home for us! Their beauty
fills our hearts with brightness, and their love with tender
thoughts. Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone?
They give to us their all; ought we not to toil unceasingly, that
they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes? We have tried to
gain the love of the stern Frost-King, but in vain; his heart is
hard as his own icy land; no love can melt, no kindness bring it
back to sunlight and to joy. How then may we keep our frail
blossoms from his cruel spirits? Who will give us counsel? Who will
be our messenger for the last time? Speak, my subjects."</p>
<p>Then a great murmuring arose, and many spoke, some for costlier
gifts, some for war; and the fearful counselled patience and
submission.</p>
<p>Long and eagerly they spoke, and their soft voices rose
high.</p>
<p>Then sweet music sounded on the air, and the loud tones were
hushed, as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should
come.</p>
<p>Through the crowd there came a little form, a wreath of pure
white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round
the gentle face, where a deep blush glowed, as, kneeling at the
throne, little Violet said:—</p>
<p>"Dear Queen, we have bent to the Frost-King's power, we have
borne gifts unto his pride, but have we gone trustingly to him and
spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds? Have we shed the soft light of
unwearied love around his cold heart, and with patient tenderness
shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest
lot?</p>
<p>"Our messengers have gone fearfully, and with cold looks and
courtly words offered him rich gifts, things he cared not for, and
with equal pride has he sent them back.</p>
<p>"Then let me, the weakest of your band, go to him, trusting in
the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart.</p>
<p>"I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers; these will I
wind about him, and their bright faces, looking lovingly in his,
will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind, and their soft breath
steal in like gentle words. Then, when he sees them fading on his
breast, will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them
fresh and lovely? This will I do, dear Queen, and never leave his
dreary home, till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that
bloom in our own dear land."</p>
<p>Silently the Queen had listened, but now, rising and placing her
hand on little Violet's head, she said, turning to the throng
below:— "We in our pride and power have erred, while this, the
weakest and lowliest of our subjects, has from the innocence of her
own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our
train. All who will aid our brave little messenger, lift your
wands, that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of
Love."</p>
<p>Every fairy wand glistened in the air, as with silvery voices
they cried, "Love and little Violet."</p>
<p>Then down from the throne, hand in hand, came the Queen and
Violet, and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil, to weave a
wreath of the fairest flowers. Tenderly they gathered them, with
the night-dew fresh upon their leaves, and as they wove chanted
sweet spells, and whispered fairy blessings on the bright
messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land, that their
gentle kindred might bloom unharmed.</p>
<p>At length it was done; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the
soft starlight, while beside them stood the Fairies, singing to the
music of the wind-harps:—</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">We are sending you, dear flowers,<br />
Forth alone to die,<br />
Where your gentle sisters may not weep<br />
O'er the cold graves where you lie;<br />
But you go to bring them fadeless life<br />
In the bright homes where they dwell,<br />
And you softly smile that 't is so,<br />
As we sadly sing farewell.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">O plead with gentle words for us,<br />
And whisper tenderly<br />
Of generous love to that cold heart,<br />
And it will answer ye;<br />
And though you fade in a dreary home,<br />
Yet loving hearts will tell<br />
Of the joy and peace that you have given:<br />
Flowers, dear flowers, farewell!"</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth,
which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its
breast, while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind, and birds
sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves. Then high
above, on shining wings, soared a little form. The sunlight rested
softly on the silken hair, and the winds fanned lovingly the bright
face, and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on.</p>
<p>Thus went Violet through the clear air, and the earth looked
smiling up to her, as, with the bright wreath folded in her arms,
she flew among the soft, white clouds.</p>
<p>On and on she went, over hill and valley, broad rivers and
rustling woods, till the warm sunlight passed away, the winds grew
cold, and the air thick with falling snow. Then far below she saw
the Frost-King's home. Pillars of hard, gray ice supported the
high, arched roof, hung with crystal icicles. Dreary gardens ay
around, filled with withered flowers and bare, drooping
trees;<br />
while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky, and a cold wind
murmured sadly through the wintry air.</p>
<p>With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more
closely to her breast, and with weary wings flew onward to the
dreary palace.</p>
<p>Here, before the closed doors, stood many forms with dark faces
and harsh, discordant voices, who sternly asked the shivering
little Fairy why she came to them.</p>
<p>Gently she answered, telling them her errand, beseeching them to
let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms. Then
they flung wide the doors, and she passed in.</p>
<p>Walls of ice, carved with strange figures, were around her;
glittering icicles hung from the high roof, and soft, white snow
covered the hard floors. On a throne hung with clouds sat the
Frost-King; a crown of crystals bound his white locks, and a dark
mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold
breast.</p>
<p>His stern face could not stay little Violet, and on through the
long hall she went, heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet,
and the bleak wind that blew around her; while the King with
wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark
walls as she passed.</p>
<p>The flowers, as if they knew their part, unfolded their bright
leaves, and poured forth their sweetest perfume, as, kneeling at
the throne, the brave little Fairy said,—</p>
<p>"O King of blight and sorrow, send me not away till I have
brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright
and beautiful again. Let me call back to the desolate gardens the
fair forms that are gone, and their soft voices blessing you will
bring to your breast a never failing joy. Cast by your icy crown
and sceptre, and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your
heart.</p>
<p>"Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty, and your dim
eyes will rest only on fair forms, while music shall sound through
these dreary halls, and the love of grateful hearts be yours. Have
pity on the gentle flower-spirits, and do not doom them to an early
death, when they might bloom in fadeless beauty, making us wiser by
their gentle teachings, and the earth brighter by their lovely
forms. These fair flowers, with the prayers of all Fairy Land, I
lay before you; O send me not away till they are answered."</p>
<p>And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves,
Violet laid the wreath at his feet, while the golden light grew
ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling
there.</p>
<p>The King's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle
Fairy, and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him; while
their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear, telling of their
dying sisters, and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the
weak and sorrowing. But he drew the dark mantle closer over his
breast and answered coldly,—</p>
<p>"I cannot grant your prayer, little Fairy; it is my will the
flowers should die. Go back to your Queen, and tell her that I
cannot yield my power to please these foolish flowers."</p>
<p>Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne, and with weary
foot went forth again, out into the cold, dark gardens, and still
the golden shadows followed her, and wherever they fell, flowers
bloomed and green leaves rustled.</p>
<p>Then came the Frost-Spirits, and beneath their cold wings the
flowers died, while the Spirits bore Violet to a low, dark cell,
saying as they left her, that their King was angry that she had
dared to stay when he had bid her go.</p>
<p>So all alone she sat, and sad thoughts of her happy home came
back to her, and she wept bitterly. But soon came visions of the
gentle flowers dying in their forest homes, and their voices
ringing in her ear, imploring her to save them. Then she wept no
longer, but patiently awaited what might come.</p>
<p>Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell, and she
heard little voices calling for help, and high up among the heavy
cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves, while
their cruel enemies sat in their nets, watching their pain.</p>
<p>With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them, tenderly
bound up their broken wings, and healed their wounds; while they
lay in the warm light, and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind
deliverer.</p>
<p>Then she went to the ugly brown spiders, and in gentle words
told them, how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin
cloth, and in return the Fairies gave them food, and then how
happily they lived among the green leaves, spinning garments for
their neighbors. "And you too," said she, "shall spin for me, and I
will give you better food than helpless insects. You shall live in
peace, and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern
King; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray, that when
folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it
their home."</p>
<p>And while she gayly sung, the little weavers spun their silken
threads, the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her
head, and over all the golden light shone softly down.</p>
<p>When the Frost-Spirits told their King, he greatly wondered and
often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and
enemies worked peacefully together. Still the light grew brighter,
and floated out into the cold air, where it hung like bright clouds
above the dreary gardens, whence all the Spirits' power could not
drive it; and green leaves budded on the naked trees, and flowers
bloomed; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them, and they bowed
their heads and died.</p>
<p>At length the mantle was finished, and amid the gray threads
shone golden ones, making it bright; and she sent it to the King,
entreating him to wear it, for it would bring peace and love to
dwell within his breast.</p>
<p>But he scornfully threw it aside, and bade his Spirits take her
to a colder cell, deep in the earth; and there with harsh words
they left her.</p>
<p>Still she sang gayly on, and the falling drops kept time so
musically, that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low,
sweet sounds that came stealing up to him.</p>
<p>Thus Violet dwelt, and each day the golden light grew stronger;
and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of
little velvet-coated moles, praying that they might listen to the
sweet music, and lie in the warm light.</p>
<p>"We lead," said they, "a dreary life in the cold earth; the
flower-roots are dead, and no soft dews descend for us to drink, no
little seed or leaf can we find. Ah, good Fairy, let us be your
servants: give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread, and we will
do all in our power to serve you."</p>
<p>And Violet said, Yes; so day after day they labored to make a
pathway through the frozen earth, that she might reach the roots of
the withered flowers; and soon, wherever through the dark galleries
she went, the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers, and they
with new life spread forth in the warm ground, and forced fresh sap
to the blossoms above. Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft
light, and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them, for when
they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left
them.</p>
<p>From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers,
who nodded gayly to him, and in sweet colors strove to tell him of
the good little Spirit, who toiled so faithfully below, that they
might live. And when he turned from the brightness without, to his
stately palace, it seemed so cold and dreary, that he folded
Violet's mantle round him, and sat beneath the faded wreath upon
his ice-carved throne, wondering at the strange warmth that came
from it; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy
from her dismal prison.</p>
<p>Soon they came hastening back, and prayed him to come and see
how lovely the dark cell had grown. The rough floor was spread with
deep green moss, and over wall and roof grew flowery vines, filling
the air with their sweet breath; while above played the clear, soft
light, casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among
the fragrant leaves; and beneath the vines stood Violet, casting
crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and
listened as she sang to them.</p>
<p>When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary
cell than his palace rooms, gentle thoughts within whispered him to
grant her prayer, and let the little Fairy go back to her friends
and home; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid
him see how frail they were, and useless to a King. Then the stern,
cold thoughts came back again, and he harshly bid her follow
him.</p>
<p>With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him, and
before the throne awaited his command. When the King saw how pale
and sad the gentle face had grown, how thin her robe, and weak her
wings, and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and
brightened as they lay upon the wand, which, guided by patient
love, had made his once desolate home so bright, he could not be
cruel to the one who had done so much for him, and in kindly tone
he said,—</p>
<p>"Little Fairy, I offer you two things, and you may choose
between them. If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may
love, will you go back to your own people and leave me and my
Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom? The
earth is broad, and we can find them in any land, then why should
you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe? Will
you do this?"</p>
<p>"Ah!" answered Violet sadly, "do you not know that beneath the
flowers' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and
sorrows like our own? And can I, heedless of their beauty, doom
them to pain and grief, that I might save my own dear blossoms from
the cruel foes to which I leave them? Ah no! sooner would I dwell
for ever in your darkest cell, than lose the love of those warm,
trusting hearts."</p>
<p>"Then listen," said the King, "to the task I give you. You shall
raise up for me a palace fairer than this, and if you can work that
miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown. And now
go forth, and begin your task; my Spirits shall not harm you, and I
will wait till it is done before I blight another flower."</p>
<p>Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart; for
she had toiled so long, her strength was nearly gone. But the
flowers whispered their gratitude, and folded their leaves as if
they blessed her; and when she saw the garden filled with loving
friends, who strove to cheer and thank her for her care, courage
and strength returned; and raising up thick clouds of mist, that
hid her from the wondering flowers, alone and trustingly she began
her work.</p>
<p>As time went by, the Frost-King feared the task had been too
hard for the Fairy; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist,
bright shadows seen to pass within, but the little voice was never
heard. Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden, the
flowers bowed their heads, and all was dark and cold as when the
gentle Fairy came.</p>
<p>And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad; for
he missed the warm light, the happy flowers, and, more than all,
the gay voice and bright face of little Violet. So he wandered
through his dreary palace, wondering how he had been content to
live before without sunlight and love.</p>
<p>And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land, and many
tears were shed, for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all, from the
Queen down to the humblest flower. Sadly they watched over every
bird and blossom which she had loved, and strove to be like her in
kindly words and deeds. They wore cypress wreaths, and spoke of her
as one whom they should never see again.</p>
<p>Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow, till one day there came to
them an unknown messenger, wrapped in a dark mantle, who looked
with wondering eyes on the bright palace, and flower-crowned elves,
who kindly welcomed him, and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to
refresh the weary stranger. Then he told them that he came from the
Frost-King, who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and
see the palace little Violet had built; for the veil of mist would
soon be withdrawn, and as she could not make a fairer home than the
ice-castle, the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear
her home. And while the Elves wept, he told them how patiently she
had toiled, how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and
beautiful.</p>
<p>These and many other things he told them; for little Violet had
won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits, and even when they
killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and
beauty, she spoke gentle words to them, and sought to teach them
how beautiful is love. Long stayed the messenger, and deeper grew
his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home, to toil
in the dreary palace of his cruel master, and suffer cold and
weariness, to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing. When the
Elves had promised they would come, he bade farewell to happy
Fairy-Land, and flew sadly home.</p>
<p>At last the time arrived, and out in his barren garden, under a
canopy of dark clouds, sat the Frost-King before the misty wall,
behind which were heard low, sweet sounds, as of rustling trees and
warbling birds.</p>
<p>Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves. First
the Queen, known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the
bright crown in her hair, beside whom flew a band of Elves in
crimson and gold, making sweet music on their flower-trumpets,
while all around, with smiling faces and bright eyes, fluttered her
loving subjects.</p>
<p>On they came, like a flock of brilliant butterflies, their
shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air;
and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers, and their
sweet voices filled the gardens with music. Like his subjects, the
King looked on the lovely Elves, and no longer wondered that little
Violet wept and longed for her home. Darker and more desolate
seemed his stately home, and when the Fairies asked for flowers, he
felt ashamed that he had none to give them.</p>
<p>At length a warm wind swept through the gardens, and the
mist-clouds passed away, while in silent wonder looked the
Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them.</p>
<p>Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping
boughs made graceful arches, through which the golden light shone
softly, making bright shadows on the deep green moss below, where
the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind, and sang, in their low,
sweet voices, how beautiful is Love.</p>
<p>Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees,
making green pillars of their rough trunks. Fountains threw their
bright waters to the roof, and flocks of silver-winged birds flew
singing among the flowers, or brooded lovingly above their nests.
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves, snow-white
clouds floated in the sunny shy, and the golden light, brighter
than before, shone softly down.</p>
<p>Soon through the long aisles came Violet, flowers and green
leaves rustling as she passed. On she went to the Frost-King's
throne, bearing two crowns, one of sparkling icicles, the other of
pure white lilies, and kneeling before him, said,—</p>
<p>"My task is done, and, thanks to the Spirits of earth and air, I
have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form. You must now
decide. Will you be King of Flower-Land, and own my gentle kindred
for your loving friends? Will you possess unfading peace and joy,
and the grateful love of all the green earth's fragrant children?
Then take this crown of flowers. But if you can find no pleasure
here, go back to your own cold home, and dwell in solitude and
darkness, where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter.</p>
<p>"Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the
happy earth, and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who
would so gladly love and reverence you. Then take this glittering
crown, hard and cold as your own heart will be, if you will shut
out all that is bright and beautiful. Both are before you.
Choose."</p>
<p>The old King looked at the little Fairy, and saw how lovingly
the bright shadows gathered round her, as if to shield her from
every harm; the timid birds nestled in her bosom, and the flowers
grew fairer as she looked upon them; while her gentle friends, with
tears in their bright eyes, folded their hands beseechingly, and
smiled on her.</p>
<p>Kind thought came thronging to his mind, and he turned to look
at the two palaces. Violet's, so fair and beautiful, with its
rustling trees, calm, sunny skies, and happy birds and flowers, all
created by her patient love and care. His own, so cold and dark and
dreary, his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom, no green
trees dwell, or gay birds sing, all desolate and dim;—and while he
gazed, his own Spirits, casting off their dark mantles, knelt
before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the
things the gentle Fairies loved so much. "We have served you long
and faithfully," said they, "give us now our freedom, that we may
learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long.
Grant the little Fairy's prayer; and let her go back to her own
dear home. She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear.
Choose the Flower crown, and we will be the truest subjects you
have ever had."</p>
<p>Then, amid a burst of wild, sweet music, the Frost-King placed
the Flower crown on his head, and knelt to little Violet; while far
and near, over the broad green earth, sounded the voices of
flowers, singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer
wind was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their
gratitude; and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their
slender branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against
her own, and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over
the little feet, and kissed them as they passed.</p>
<p>The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet's
lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the
bright sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer,
danced with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving
eagerness. Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds,
and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the
earth, carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.</p>
<p> </p>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Brighter shone the golden shadows;<br />
On the cool wind softly came<br />
The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,<br />
Singing little Violet's name.<br />
'Mong the green trees was it whispered,<br />
And the bright waves bore it on<br />
To the lonely forest flowers,<br />
Where the glad news had not gone.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,<br />
And his power to harm and blight.<br />
Violet conquered, and his cold heart<br />
Warmed with music, love, and light;<br />
And his fair home, once so dreary,<br />
Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,<br />
Brought a joy that never faded<br />
Through the long bright summer hours.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p class="poem">Thus, by Violet's magic power,<br />
All dark shadows passed away,<br />
And o'er the home of happy flowers<br />
The golden light for ever lay.<br />
Thus the Fairy mission ended,<br />
And all Flower-Land was taught<br />
The "Power of Love," by gentle deeds<br />
That little Violet wrought.</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
<p>As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this
was the tale "Silver Wing" told.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-13 02:56:22 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-13 02:56:23 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-13 02:56:24 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-04-13 02:56:24 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@5a3839f9
