2022-12-06 01:40:43 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2022-12-06 01:40:43 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2022-12-06 01:41:14 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2022-12-06 01:41:14 INFO  - Session id - f6be7dce7b4649fec7e15c26b8d885558051fa83
2022-12-06 01:41:14 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2022-12-06 01:41:14 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:17 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:18 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2022-12-06 01:41:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2022-12-06 01:41:23 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:25 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2022-12-06 01:41:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:32 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2022-12-06 01:41:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:33 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:35 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:35 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000282
2022-12-06 01:41:35 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2022-12-06 01:41:36 INFO  - bookName: The Art of Dying Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2022-12-06 01:41:36 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2022-12-06 01:41:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2022-12-06 01:41:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000282'
2022-12-06 01:41:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2022-12-06 01:41:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2022-12-06 01:41:40 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:41:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:41:47 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2022-12-06 01:42:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:42:08 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2022-12-06 01:42:08 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:42:29 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2022-12-06 01:42:49 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:42:51 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2022-12-06 01:42:51 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2022-12-06 01:42:51 INFO  - randomBookName: The Milk Cows
2022-12-06 01:42:51 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2022-12-06 01:42:51 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Milk Cows'
2022-12-06 01:42:52 INFO  - Button 'Apply search' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:42:54 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2022-12-06 01:42:56 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2022-12-06 01:42:58 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:42:59 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:43:12 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2022-12-06 01:43:13 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:43:13 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:43:13 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2022-12-06 01:43:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:43:15 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2022-12-06 01:43:15 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2022-12-06 01:43:33 INFO  - Step 11 - I save font size as 'fontSize'
2022-12-06 01:43:34 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:43:34 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:43:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:43:35 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:43:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:43:36 INFO  - Step 12 - I open font settings
2022-12-06 01:43:36 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:43:36 INFO  - Step 13 - I INCREASE_FONT of text
2022-12-06 01:43:36 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:43:37 INFO  - Step 14 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2022-12-06 01:43:38 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:43:38 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:43:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:43:39 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:43:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:43:40 INFO  - Step 15 - I restart app
2022-12-06 01:44:04 INFO  - Step 16 - I open Books
2022-12-06 01:44:04 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:05 INFO  - Step 17 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2022-12-06 01:44:06 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:07 INFO  - Step 18 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2022-12-06 01:44:08 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:09 INFO  - Step 19 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2022-12-06 01:44:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:10 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:11 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:12 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:12 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:44:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:14 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:44:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:14 INFO  - Step 20 - I return to previous screen from epub
2022-12-06 01:44:14 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:15 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2022-12-06 01:44:16 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:17 INFO  - Step 22 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2022-12-06 01:44:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:44:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:19 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:44:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:19 INFO  - Step 23 - I save font size as 'fontSize'
2022-12-06 01:44:20 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:20 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:44:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:21 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:44:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:21 INFO  - Step 24 - I open font settings
2022-12-06 01:44:22 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:22 INFO  - Step 25 - I DECREASE_FONT of text
2022-12-06 01:44:22 INFO  - Button 'setTextSmaller' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:24 INFO  - Step 26 - Font size 'fontSize' is decreased
2022-12-06 01:44:24 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2022-12-06 01:44:24 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2022-12-06 01:44:25 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:25 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="EN" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Milk Cows</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="pagehead"><a href="contents.html#pre">Preface</a></p>
<p class="normal">This is the story of Germany’s submarine tankers, popularly known as the ‘milk cows’. Germany’s Kriegsmarine was, in the Second World War, the only navy in history ever to operate submarine tankers, a circumstance forced upon the U-boat Command by the difficulty of refuelling U-boats with conventional tankers in an ocean that would become dominated by Allied air and sea power. Their unique ability to submerge to evade detection provided the submarine tankers, for a while, with the means to continue their hazardous undertaking.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Any account of U-boat fortunes in the Second World War tends to leave the reader feeling stunned. By the end of the war, the Germans had suffered 30,000 dead and 5,000 captured U-boatmen from a deployed U-boat force of 41,000 men (latest German assessment), the worst casualty rate sustained by any armed force over a protracted period in all of history, and the milk cows suffered their full share of this carnage. British Intelligence was able to read most of the cows’ numerous radio commands from 1943 to the end of the war, and their appalling casualty rate can be largely attributed to this cause. At times, the British Admiralty knew more about U-boat operations than did the Germans.</p>
<p class="bodytext">One cannot help but wonder why the Germans never understood that their ciphers were insecure. The ciphers were produced by mechanical interlocking devices, with rotating rotors to scramble the message, which the Germans well understood could be captured. The coded messages were then broadcast freely as radio messages in large volumes, so that code-breakers had plenty of material on which to work. The German faith in the machines’ security relied on the fact that their settings were altered daily, and new mechanical rotors put in monthly, but clearly one could envisage this system being broken by a chance capture (as did occasionally occur) providing both settings and replacement rotors leading to a series of planned captures. Mostly, however, the British relied on the use of the world’s first electronic computers to break the ciphers by trial and error.</p>
<p class="bodytext">The published memoirs of the few surviving U-boat commanders who were at sea after mid-1943 make it clear that the men at sea had realized that any broadcast message brought instant retribution, a problem exacerbated by the accuracy of Allied direction-finding equipment used to pinpoint the position of a transmitting U-boat. The older hands would send each other messages couched in terms that would only be understood by the recipient, if they used the radio at all. Yet BdU (U-boat Command) continued to send out radio commands to boats as soon as they had left port instead of providing ‘sealed instructions’ to be opened at sea. It is true that many U-boats were sunk fortuitously – for example, boats caught unawares at night by radar-fitted aircraft while travelling on the surface in the Bay of Biscay or even in mid-Atlantic – but constant changes to the U-boat ciphers indicated that the Germans had their suspicions.</p>
<p class="bodytext">It must have become apparent that virtually every U-tanker sent to refuel boats for remote theatres was quickly sunk after mid-1943, despite selection of the most secluded sea areas for the rendezvous. It seems extraordinary now that U-boat Command did not send out U-boats with written orders to head to a remote part of the ocean, then broadcast repeatedly in cipher from France that a refuelling was to take place at this remote area and order the U-boat to report back what happened. Several U-boats ordered to rendezvous with a milk cow in mid-Atlantic did report to base that they found only destroyers at the rendezvous, and the cow was never seen again.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Doubtless part of the problem lay with wishful thinking, for any interference with radio commands negated the whole basis of wolf-pack tactics, by which many boats were directed to a convoy located by one of their number. It is to be hoped that our current naval planners have not put the same unquestioning faith in their machine-operated ciphers as did the German Navy, particularly with the much-publicized advances in computer decryption techniques.</p>
<p class="normal">For the benefit of younger readers, accustomed to thinking of modern submarines as capable of remaining underwater for sustained periods (months), it should be mentioned that at the time of the Second World War the average ‘submarine’ was actually a submersible torpedo carrier. It was intended to operate on the surface in a manner similar to a destroyer armed with torpedoes, but with a much-reduced gun armament and with the priceless ability to submerge to avoid detection.</p>
<p class="bodytext">Conventional diesel engines requiring fuel oil were used when the U-boat cruised on the surface, which it did for most of the time, permitting a speed of 17 to 18 knots, far higher than the speed of most convoys and even of many of the convoy escorts. But once the U-boat dived, it switched to its main electric batteries. These provided it with a top speed of 7 knots for just one hour before running out of power, or with a crawling speed of 1 knot for anything up to forty-eight hours. Thus the U-boat lost all its mobility once it dived and the slowest convoy would leave it behind. Moreover, it could not move any great distance before the exhaustion of its batteries required the U-boat to return to the surface, when the diesels could be used to drive the boat again and also to recharge the batteries (a task that took a few hours). By and large the milk cows did not need to submerge, except to dodge aircraft while passing between their bases (on the west coast of France) and the North Atlantic Ocean. Thus, most of the actions described in this book occurred on the surface.</p>
<p class="bodytext">In 1944 the Germans introduced the first examples of the ‘true submarine’, capable of remaining underwater for weeks at a time. These were the Type XXI and Type XXIII ‘electric’ U-boats, which were to revolution-alize submarine design from 1945 onwards.</p>
<p class="bodytext">But the electric boats do not form part of this story.</p>


</body>
</html>
2022-12-06 01:44:25 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2022-12-06 01:44:26 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2022-12-06 01:44:27 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2022-12-06 01:44:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:31 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:32 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:44:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:44:35 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2022-12-06 01:44:36 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:44:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:44:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2022-12-06 01:44:40 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2022-12-06 01:44:40 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2708e2e2
