2023-04-08 18:53:35 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-04-08 18:53:35 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-08 18:54:20 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-08 18:54:20 INFO  - Session id - 2881deea604421c9492be7b4fa6599653ddd19fb
2023-04-08 18:54:20 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-08 18:54:20 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:23 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-08 18:54:24 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-08 18:54:24 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:24 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-08 18:54:25 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-08 18:54:25 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-08 18:54:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-08 18:54:29 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:29 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-08 18:54:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:31 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:32 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:34 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-08 18:54:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - bookName: The Montessori Baby Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-08 18:54:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-04-08 18:54:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-08 18:54:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-08 18:54:42 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:54:47 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:54:48 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-08 18:55:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:55:09 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-08 18:55:09 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:55:31 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-08 18:55:51 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:55:53 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-08 18:55:53 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-04-08 18:55:53 INFO  - randomBookName: The Hidden
2023-04-08 18:55:53 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-08 18:55:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Hidden'
2023-04-08 18:55:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-08 18:56:01 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-08 18:56:02 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:56:02 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:56:08 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-08 18:56:09 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:56:09 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:56:10 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-08 18:56:10 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:56:12 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-08 18:56:12 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-08 18:56:34 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-04-08 18:56:34 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:56:34 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:56:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:56:35 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:56:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:56:35 INFO  - Step 16 - Open font settings
2023-04-08 18:56:36 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:56:36 INFO  - Step 17 - INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-04-08 18:56:36 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:56:37 INFO  - Step 18 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-04-08 18:56:38 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:56:38 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:56:38 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:56:38 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:56:38 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:56:39 INFO  - Step 19 - Restart app
2023-04-08 18:57:04 INFO  - Step 20 - Open Books
2023-04-08 18:57:04 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:04 INFO  - Step 21 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-08 18:57:06 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:07 INFO  - Step 22 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-08 18:57:08 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:08 INFO  - Step 23 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-04-08 18:57:08 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:10 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:11 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:11 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:57:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:12 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:57:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:12 INFO  - Step 24 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-08 18:57:13 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:13 INFO  - Step 25 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-08 18:57:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:15 INFO  - Step 26 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-04-08 18:57:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:16 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:57:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:18 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:57:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:18 INFO  - Step 27 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-04-08 18:57:19 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:19 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:57:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:19 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:57:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:20 INFO  - Step 28 - Open font settings
2023-04-08 18:57:20 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:21 INFO  - Step 29 - DECREASE_FONT of text
2023-04-08 18:57:21 INFO  - Button 'setTextSmaller' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:22 INFO  - Step 30 - Font size 'fontSize' is decreased
2023-04-08 18:57:23 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:23 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:57:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:23 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:57:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:24 INFO  - Step 31 - Restart app
2023-04-08 18:57:48 INFO  - Step 32 - Open Books
2023-04-08 18:57:48 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:50 INFO  - Step 33 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-08 18:57:50 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:50 INFO  - Step 34 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-08 18:57:51 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:52 INFO  - Step 35 - Font size 'fontSize' is decreased
2023-04-08 18:57:52 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:53 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:57:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:55 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 2</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch2" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch2"><span aria-label="5" id="pg_5" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">2</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Bathwater</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">T<small>HE WATER FILLS</small> </span>the bathtub slowly, over a number of hours. As it does so, the body of the man begins to float, rising with the level of the liquid, the small amount of fat and the air in his body keeping him on the surface for now. Falling from the tap, the water is clear. As the thin stream enters the tub, it mixes with the man’s blood so that the color of the bathwater varies from pale rose at his feet, to plumes of bright red near his head, where pulse pressure shoots the blood from the wound in regular bursts. It takes a long time, but when the bath is full, the solution finds its way to the overflow, and from there it trickles through the many meters of pipework to the sewers deep below the block of flats.</p>
<p class="TX">In the bathtub, as well as the man and the water and the blood, there is a towel. The towel is drawn toward the overflow until, at last, a combination of the man’s legs and the bunching of the thick fabric blocks the hole completely. No one is there to turn off the tap; the bath keeps filling, and keeps filling, so that soon, like a bloody version of the magic porridge pot it goes over, flooding the bathroom, searching out the edges of the vinyl, breaking through, <span aria-label="6" id="pg_6" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>soaking into the floorboards, pooling in the cavity under the floor. There’s a layer of sealant there and a layer of soundproofing, but the water finds the lowest point. It accumulates, becomes heavier, weakens the plasterboard. It only needs a tiny gap, a pinprick, to break through.</p>
<p class="TX">In the flat below, Mrs. Stefanidis is preparing to eat her lunch, a small cheese sandwich on white bread. She feels rather than hears something drop, disrupting the air close to her face, but when she places her hands on the tabletop and feels around, there appears to be nothing amiss. After a momentary frown, her fingers find the plate and raise the sandwich to her lips, the macular degeneration that has reduced her vision to a sliver of peripheral preventing her from noticing the spreading pink circle that has wetted the middle of the bread, the droplet of blood and bathwater that landed there, that came from the ceiling above. As she opens her mouth, another fat sphere drops and bursts, this time on her hand, and she puts the sandwich down.</p>
<p class="TX">Something in the ceiling gives. It starts to come faster, dripping like a broken gutter in the middle of the kitchen table, spattering the walls, flecks of it on the white net curtains, on the clean cups that stand on the draining board. Mrs. Stefanidis feels under the sink for the bucket, locates the leak and places the vessel just so, to catch it. She dries her hands on her apron, then reaches into her apron pocket to phone for the maintenance man. Using the specially enlarged buttons on her handset, she speed-dials Terry’s number, listens to it ringing, hopes he won’t mind coming to help her; there’s no one else to ask. On the table, the bucket is filling, slowly but surely. Soon it will be too heavy for her to lift. The apron she wears is made of crisp cotton. She doesn’t see the pinkish prints her fingers have made there.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-08 18:57:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:57:56 INFO  - Step 36 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-08 18:57:57 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:58 INFO  - Step 37 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-08 18:57:58 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:57:59 INFO  - Step 38 - Font size 'fontSize' is decreased
2023-04-08 18:57:59 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-08 18:57:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-08 18:58:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-08 18:58:01 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-08 18:58:01 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-08 18:58:03 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:58:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:58:07 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:58:08 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:58:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:58:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:58:10 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-08 18:58:31 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-08 18:58:31 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-04-08 18:58:31 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@603111e2
