2023-08-20 03:41:09 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-20 03:41:09 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-20 03:41:36 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-20 03:41:36 INFO  - Session id - b8f593f95b462b95eda4e986c20951702fc25566
2023-08-20 03:41:36 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-20 03:41:37 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:39 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-20 03:41:40 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-20 03:41:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:40 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-20 03:41:41 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-20 03:41:41 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-20 03:41:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-20 03:41:46 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:47 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-20 03:41:47 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:49 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:52 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-20 03:41:52 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:54 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:55 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:41:55 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-08-20 03:41:55 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - bookName: The Will to Change Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - bookName: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: A Signature Performance by Elijah Wood Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - bookName: Godsgrave Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 5
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-20 03:41:58 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-08-20 03:42:00 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-20 03:42:00 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-20 03:42:02 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:42:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:42:09 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-20 03:42:29 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:42:30 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-20 03:42:30 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:42:50 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-20 03:43:11 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:13 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-20 03:43:13 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-08-20 03:43:13 INFO  - randomBookName: The Net Tightens Around Hitler
2023-08-20 03:43:13 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-20 03:43:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Net Tightens Around Hitler'
2023-08-20 03:43:19 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-20 03:43:23 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-20 03:43:23 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:43:24 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:31 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-20 03:43:32 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:43:32 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:33 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-20 03:43:34 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:34 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-20 03:43:34 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-20 03:43:56 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-20 03:43:57 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:58 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-20 03:43:58 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:43:59 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-20 03:43:59 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-20 03:43:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-20 03:43:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-08-20 03:44:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-20 03:44:00 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>The Net Tightens Around Hitler-1. Germans entrenched on mountaintop</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788726759198.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block1">
            <h1 id="h12">1. Germans entrenched on mountaintop
   </h1>
         </div>
         <div class="block epigraph" id="epigraph1">
            <p id="p8">A single ridge blocked the Allied armies’ route to Rome. The battle for the mountain, with its beautiful old monastery, became a repeat of the hell of World War I’s trenches. The front barely moved for four months – even after an Allied commander chose to bomb a strategic, but highly controversial, target.
   </p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p9">The evening was cold and as dull as ever for the German sentries on the slopes outside the city of Cassino, in central Italy. But their boredom was suddenly broken by a nightmarish scene. Without warning, the mountainside was filled with roaring figures storming forward. Higher up, dazed defenders frantically tried to prepare for battle, but it was too late.</p>
         <p id="p10">On the night of 12th January 1944, Moroccan colonial soldiers from the French Army quickly overran the German outposts. The death-defying North African troops were in their element among the peaks.</p>
         <p id="p11">“The Moroccan loves the night and the mountains,” wrote a proud colonel, Felix Lappara, later. Lappara, who led one of the Moroccan regiments, continued: “Rocks, thickets and sheer crevasses, all observed in the treacherous darkness, are his best allies and over a thousand years his eyes have become accustomed to not losing their way in the gloom. He knows when to creep forward and when to wait.”</p>
         <p id="p12">The Moroccan division was part of the Allied forces, which were making their way north through Italy. The Germans had established several lines of defence, but to reach them, the Allies first had to fight their way through the Apennine Mountains, which divided the Italian peninsula lengthwise.</p>
         <h2 id="h21">Soldiers fought non-stop for five days
   </h2>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p13">Algerian soldiers also fought alongside the Moroccans, and despite the hostile landscape, they advanced rapidly.</p>
         <p id="p14">France’s North African soldiers proved why they’d gained a reputation for being among the world’s best assault troops.</p>
         <p id="p15">Soon after, the Germans deployed their own specialists: paratroopers, trained to fight in difficult terrain. The advance grew more arduous, and the Moroccans and Algerians had to fight with hand grenades and bayonets to capture every peak. Meanwhile, commanders on both sides struggled to get an overview of the maelstrom on the cliffs and in the gorges.</p>
         <p id="p16">“It was no longer even a question of small-unit combat, but rather of one man against another in a terrain in which one could spend hours on end without having any clear idea of what was happening only ten yards from the forward positions,” read a report from the Moroccan division.</p>
         <p id="p17">The battle continued after dawn, and in the following days, the North Africans fought hard to move forward. Finally, on the fifth day, all the designated targets had been captured and the weary soldiers got a well-deserved rest.</p>
         <p id="p18">Despite their efforts, the offensive had only advanced the front by five kilometres. And the Allies had only managed to reach the German defensive position: the Gustav Line.</p>
         <p id="p19">The slow progress was nothing new in the protracted Italian campaign. Ever since September 1943, when troops from the United States, British Empire and French colonies had landed in southern Italy, the Allies had been slowly moving north. The Germans had blown up all the bridges over gorges in the mountains and destroyed the crossings over the gushing rivers of the lowlands. The narrow roads were blocked by mines, and from the ridges, hidden guns, mortars and machine guns caused constant losses.</p>
         <p id="p20">Field Marshal Albert Kesselring had promised Hitler that he could defend Rome until the summer of 1944. So, Kesselring prepared the Gustav Line – a belt of positions from coast to coast, to force the enemy’s offensive to grind to a halt.</p>
         <p id="p21">The location of the Gustav Line had been chosen with care, because almost the entire width of Italy was covered in mountains at that point. By the Adriatic Sea to the east, there was only a narrow strip of coastal plain, and to the west, the Aurunci Mountains rose from the sea. Between them and the mighty Apennines lay the Liri Valley – the only place where Allied tanks could advance. First, however, they had to cross the Rapido River, and every metre of it was watched from the peaks behind the city of Cassino. From here, the Germans could also direct deadly gunfire at the only usable road to the north.</p>
         <p id="p22">Supreme Allied Commander Harold Alexander was aware that “the road which leads to Rome is long and bristles with thorns”, as he wrote. So, instead of breaking through the Gustav Line, Alexander laid out an ambitious plan that would make an attack on the Germans’ natural fortress unnecessary: by landing on the coast behind the enemy, he’d give the Germans on the Gustav Line a choice between being surrounded and wiped out, or surrendering. On Saturday 22nd January 1944, the plan was set in motion as boats full of American and British soldiers streamed in towards the coast at Anzio, between the front and Rome. But Kesselring’s reserve units were prepared, and German elite forces quickly surrounded the bridgehead. The Allies took too long to break out, and the Anzio operation was a failure.</p>
         <h2 id="h22">Americans attacked in vain
   </h2>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p23">In parallel with the landing, attacks began at the mouth of the Liri Valley to keep the German forces at the front. The offensive would soon escalate into a real attempt to break through Kesselring’s line. Meanwhile, the North Africans of the Free French Forces were again advancing towards the Nazis. But the attack had barely begun when an order to change direction arrived. The colonial troops had to turn south-west to help the Americans, who were trying to capture the city and mountain of Cassino.</p>
         <p id="p24">The hardy North African soldiers weren’t impressed with their allies. And they quickly discovered that the enemy’s respect for the American soldiers was just as low: “German… patrols were operating all over no man’s land, throwing grenades and shouting insults at us,” wrote Sergeant Ahmed Ben Bella, who later became the first president of independent Algeria. “We soon realised, as the insults were all in English, that the Germans thought the Americans were still there. The Americans had hardly sent out any patrols and had not even been able to tell us where the enemy outposts were located.”</p>
         <p id="p25">At the northern edge of Cassino, an American division was trying to cross the Rapido River. But each attack was slowed down by mines and muddy riverbanks, while German machine guns kept battering away. Sergeant Major Billy Kirby described the horror: “We were under constant fire… It was the only scene that I’d seen in the war that lived up to what you see in the movies. I had never seen so many bodies – our own guys. I remember this kid being hit by a machine gun; the bullets hitting him pushed his body along like a tin-can. Just about everybody was hit. I didn’t have a single good friend in the company who wasn’t killed or wounded.”</p>
         <p id="p26">The Germans also suffered. A non-commissioned officer from a front-line regiment wrote in his diary: “22 January:</p>
         <p id="p27">I am done. The artillery fire is driving me crazy. I am frightened as never before… During the night one cannot leave one’s hole. The last days have finished me off altogether.”</p>
         <p id="p28">After three bloody days, the Allies managed to cross the river. Slowly, the German soldiers were driven up the slopes of Monte Cassino. But although reinforcements were thrown into the fray, the attackers were spent by 12th February. The front line was less than 400 metres from the abbey at on Monte Cassino, but it might as well have been 400 kilometres.</p>
         <p id="p29">The Allied commanders were frustrated, because the advance towards Rome was unable to get off the ground. A new attack was planned, this time with fresh Indian and New Zealand divisions to replace the Americans.</p>
         <p id="p30">Prior to the offensive, General Alexander made a controversial decision: he decided to bomb the medieval monastery on Monte Cassino. Until then, the magnificent building had remained undamaged, because the Germans had declared the monastery a neutral zone.</p>
         <h2 id="h23">Indian officer mistrusted the Germans
   </h2>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p31">With its location on top of the mountain, the monastery could have played a crucial role, with its unobstructed views of the battlefield for miles around, just as batteries placed there could have covered the hillside and made an offensive even more difficult. But Field Marshal Kesselring wanted to save Italy’s cultural treasures from the fury of war. The head of the Indian division, however, didn’t trust the enemy’s guarantees and demanded that the abbey be levelled before sending his men up the hillside. Alexander capitulated – soldiers’ lives were more important than bricks and mortar.</p>
         <p id="p32">On the morning of 15th February, the sky was filled with a swarm of planes. The engine noise was deafening as over 250 Allied bombers flew over Monte Cassino and dropped their bombs on the monastery. The attack was the war’s largest Allied air operation to support troops on the ground so far. To a German lieutenant on the mountainside, the detonations felt as though a “huge giant was shaking the town”.</p>
         <p id="p33">Several hundred Italian refugees perished inside the abbey. The Allies had given advance warning of the attack via a leaflet drop, but the people within didn’t believe the bombing raid would actually happen. In the days that followed, German radio indignantly protested against the Allies’ action: “The Abbey Monte Cassino is completely destroyed. A senseless act of force of the Anglo-American Air Force has robbed civilised mankind of one of its most valued cultural monuments.”</p>
         <p id="p34">Strategically, the bombing was a failure. Sure, German units near the monastery suffered significant losses, but the Indian division wasn’t ready to attack until two days later. And as the soldiers began to climb the slopes on 17th February, they were met by deadly gunfire from the ruins that the Germans now occupied. The rubble proved to be excellent cover for the German machine-gun positions.</p>
         <p id="p35">After catastrophic losses, the troops were ordered to halt the attack the following day. The few gains in terrain the soldiers had achieved had to be abandoned, because they had no cover against the Germans’ weapons. Down in Cassino, the New Zealanders’ attack had also failed, and the offensive was halted to avoid sacrificing any more soldiers.</p>
         <h2 id="h24">Germans refused to give in
   </h2>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p36">The New Zealanders made a fresh attempt a month later, on 15th March. Again, heavy bombers were deployed to soften the target. The old houses in the city of Cassino were reduced to rubble, and the German paratroopers suffered heavy losses, too. However, the ruins also blocked the Allied tanks’ passage, so the infantry had to fight alone.</p>
         <p id="p37">House by house, the New Zealanders fought their way into the city, while the Indians slowly advanced on the slopes of Monte Cassino. But even though the division’s cool-headed Nepalese got so close to the monastery that they could almost touch the walls, it was impossible to get inside. The German paratroopers’ doggedness halted the Allies in Cassino and on the mountain.</p>
         <p id="p38">On 20th March, the British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, sent an enquiring telegram to Alexander:</p>
         <p id="p39">“I wish you would explain to me why this passage by Cassino, monastery, hill, etc, all on a front of two or three miles, is the only place which you must keep butting at. About five or six divisions have been worn out going into these jaws.”</p>
         <p id="p40">In his reply, Alexander explained the strategic importance of Monte Cassino, but also admitted that the Allies had been surprised by the strength of the defence: “The tenacity of these German paratroops is quite remarkable, considering that they were subjected to the whole of the Mediterranean Air Force plus the better part of 800 guns under the greatest concentration of firepower which has ever been put down and lasting six hours. I doubt if there are any other troops in the world who could have stood up to it and then gone on fighting with the ferocity they have.”</p>
         <p id="p41">The general, however, heeded Churchill’s advice, and the offensive was called off. Instead, Alexander began to plan a push across a broader front in May.</p>
         <p id="p42">Meanwhile, the Allied troops dug themselves into their new positions, and some sort of everyday routine was established – marked by the endless thunder of artillery and constant small battles. For the soldiers on both sides of the front, spring 1944 brought only endless suffering and loss.</p>
         <p id="p43">“What we are going through here is beyond description. I have never experienced anything like this in Russia, not even a second’s peace, only the dreadful thunder of guns and mortars… Here we have nothing but terror and horror, death and damnation,” wrote a German private.</p>
         <p id="p44">The short distance between the sides meant that the only safe places were foxholes or basements beneath the ruins. As soon as the soldiers left their hiding places, their lives were in danger. “On the way to Company HQ, a distance of less than 200 metres, there are at least 20 German dead – how it happened is all too evident,” a German soldier in Cassino reported. “[The Tommies’] snipers shoot only too well. Again and again head wounds. The mortars fire and the whistle and explosion of shells goes on, day and night. Sometimes, for a moment or two only, there is peace, and then I think of home.”</p>
         <p id="p45">The Allies also suffered constant losses from shells and mines. In the months running up to the action at the Gustav Line, German engineering troops had had plenty of time to fill the ground with explosives, and the minefields were a constant danger. The terrain also made everyday life difficult: “It took a laden man 4.5 hours to climb to the Battalion area. All water, ammunition and rations had to be carried by hand, as the route was impassable to mules,” a British regiment’s war diary recorded.</p>
         <h2 id="h25">Fresh troops won battle
   </h2>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p46">Fatigue was spreading among the soldiers, but the Allies had an advantage – General Alexander was able to replace his exhausted troops. Ahead of the fourth offensive in May, front-line troops at Monte Cassino were relieved by fully-rested Poles and Britons. Forces were also moved from the east coast, so Alexander had 25 divisions and 11 brigades available in the west.</p>
         <p id="p47">Kesselring didn’t have the same luck, because the German army in Italy was being pushed to breaking point. The field marshal could only muster nine divisions, so the paratroopers had to remain at their post at Monte Cassino.</p>
         <p id="p48">“Not a single man of my original squad is left,” wrote a German soldier home to his father in Germany. “It seems to be the same in the entire company.”</p>
         <p id="p49">Code-named Operation Diadem, the fourth battle of Monte Cassino began on 12th May. Just before dawn, two Polish divisions set off towards the monastery. The Poles were both rested and far superior in number to their German opponents.</p>
         <p id="p50">As with the previous attacks, the paratroopers responded with machine-gun salvos. The German positions at the top of the mountain were strong, and wounded soldiers flocked to the hospitals behind the front. “Some crawled to us on their own, others were helped by friends, others were slung over shoulders like sacks,” recalled a field doctor called Majewski.</p>
         <p id="p51">Despite the fierce attacks, the offensive stalled. Like other Allied forces before them, the Poles realised that the Germans’ position on Monte Cassino was too strong. The attack was interrupted, in the hope that an opportunity would arise. It did, five days later. Again, it was the soldiers from France’s North African colonies who paved the way for the Allies. On the westernmost part of the front, the men broke through the German defences so that British divisions were able to advance into the Liri Valley, and the entire Gustav Line faltered. The Poles took advantage and went on the offensive once more. Again, the German paratroopers’ defences were strong, but from their positions at the top of Monte Cassino, the soldiers could see the British forces making their way through the Liri Valley. The prospect of being surrounded caused the defences to crumble. Finally, Polish soldiers were able to storm the monastery and Monte Cassino fell.</p>
         <p id="p52">On 17th May, Field Marshal Kesselring finally abandoned the Gustav Line, fearing that all his divisions would be surrounded. While the British were invading the Liri Valley, Allied forces broke out of the bridgehead at Anzio, where they’d arrived four months earlier. The Allies still had a chance to capture Kesselring’s forces, but instead the divisions from Anzio set course for Rome to win the honour of being the first Allies in the Eternal City. Kesselring’s divisions escaped and established a new line of defence further north.</p>
         <p id="p53">The battle for Monte Cassino cost more than 75,000 dead and wounded soldiers, and the survivors were forever scarred psychologically. In an Allied prisoner of war camp, German Sergeant Richard Kruppa forbade his men to mention the battle: “Speak about women, but not about Cassino!”</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-08-20 03:44:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-20 03:44:01 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-20 03:44:02 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-20 03:44:03 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:44:05 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:44:06 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:44:07 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:44:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:44:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:44:10 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-20 03:44:31 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-20 03:44:31 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-20 03:44:31 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@11810d12
