2023-04-26 20:35:49 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-04-26 20:35:49 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-26 20:36:15 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-26 20:36:15 INFO  - Session id - ce9729b392f0ceed91d46b4fd53692cb7bf4973a
2023-04-26 20:36:15 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-26 20:36:15 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:18 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-26 20:36:18 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-26 20:36:18 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:19 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-26 20:36:20 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-26 20:36:21 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-26 20:36:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-26 20:36:25 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:25 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-26 20:36:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:27 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:29 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-26 20:36:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:31 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:32 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:33 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-04-26 20:36:33 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-26 20:36:34 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-26 20:36:34 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-04-26 20:36:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-26 20:36:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-04-26 20:36:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-26 20:36:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-26 20:36:38 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:36:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:36:46 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-26 20:37:07 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:37:07 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-26 20:37:07 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:37:28 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-26 20:37:48 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:37:50 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-26 20:37:50 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-04-26 20:37:50 INFO  - randomBookName: British Railways in the 1960s
2023-04-26 20:37:51 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-26 20:37:52 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'British Railways in the 1960s'
2023-04-26 20:37:55 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-26 20:37:59 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-26 20:38:00 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:38:01 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:38:15 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-26 20:38:16 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:38:17 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:38:19 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-26 20:38:20 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:38:21 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-26 20:38:21 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-26 20:38:39 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-04-26 20:38:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:38:40 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-04-26 20:38:40 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:38:41 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-26 20:38:42 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:38:42 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-26 20:38:43 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:38:43 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<link href="../style/9781473869790.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<title>British railways in the 1960s</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="fmtitle" id="page5">INTRODUCTION</h2>
<p class="noindent">In the first book of this series, covering the Southern Region of British Railways, an explanation was given as to why that took precedence over other areas, considering my being a Yorkshireman.</p>
<p class="indent">I was born and brought up in the Gleadless area of Sheffield, Yorkshire, firmly in London Midland and Eastern Region territory, into a railway-mad family. My father, Derek, had been introduced to the hobby at the age of about twelve by his elder brother Ken during 1935, having been taken to Sheffield Midland station to see a brand-new LMS maroon-liveried ‘Jubilee’ Class 4-6-0, and he was hooked! I made my entrance in March 1949, four years after my sister Gwyneth and followed by brothers Barry and Keith by 1950 and 1953, after which my mother, Margaret, had her hands full!</p>
<p class="indent">Both my mother and father had finished their schooling, latterly being in the same class, at fourteen years-of-age and went into the world of work prior to the outbreak of the Second World War. My father took up an apprenticeship with Brightside Engineering and my mother was helping out with her family’s business running a crockery stall at Sheffield’s covered market, the Sheaf Market, aka the ‘Rag &amp; Tag’, as well as at Walker &amp; Hall’s Cutlery factory. This was much damaged during the German Blitz on Sheffield during December 1940.</p>
<p class="indent">Working in the field of heating and ventilation, my father gained a ‘roving commission’ on projects widely dispersed around the country; this usually required travelling by train in order to reach the sites involved. Frequently, he would be away from home for considerable periods staying in digs. This offered plenty of opportunities to observe the local railway workings wherever he happened to be.</p>
<p class="indent">Eventually, as the war progressed, he was called-up and remarkably the military authorities recognised his engineering ability after initial training, and he joined the Royal Engineers. Further training increased his skills in refrigeration and air-conditioning – also keeping him away from dangerous action, though he was involved in various bombing raids on London and Sheffield as a result of enemy action.</p>
<p class="indent">Like many couples at the time, my parents married at a young age – just nineteen – in September 1943, not knowing how long a future they might have together. (In fact, they celebrated their seventy-second wedding anniversary in September 2015, just a month prior to my father passing away). They managed a week’s honeymoon in Colwyn Bay, travelling by train from Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">They then had to go their separate ways, my mother in the Land Army and my father with the Royal Engineers. By coincidence, they both ended up in the Hereford area for a time and were able to spend a few precious hours together occasionally. Derek was then sent on a course to learn about ‘heat-engines’ at Loughborough and managed to pull some strings to get Margaret transferred to that area too.</p>
<p class="indent">By early 1945, Derek was posted to the Longmoor Military Railway where a specially-constructed Mobile Refrigeration Unit train was being assembled – he and a few fellow Sappers were sent off on a ‘mystery tour’, with the train hauled by Southern Railway motive power. They ended up stabled in a siding at Plymouth Friary for a few days, living in a rudimentary converted passenger coach while they tended the freezer equipment on the train. The condition of the meat stored in the wagons was tested on their return to Longmoor – it was found to be perfect, which was just as well as meat was a scarce resource at the time.</p>
<p class="indent">Within hours of returning to Longmoor, Derek and his team re-joined the rest of their RE colleagues and found themselves on a troop-train to heaven-knows-where. They started their journey behind a Southern Railway engine as far as Mitre Bridge Junction, in West London, where a streamlined LMS ‘Pacific’ took over. No-one knew where they were going but Derek was at least able to work out where they were as the train headed north along the West <a id="page6"></a>Coast Main Line. He concluded that Glasgow was the destination and rumours began to fly that India was the eventual end of the journey.</p>
<p class="indent">Sure enough, two ‘Jubilees’ took over the train outside Glasgow to take it to Greenock Prince’s Pier for embarkation on a small tender ferry out to a large troopship, to begin a few weeks’ voyage to Mumbai (still Bombay in those days), via the Suez Canal. It transpired for Derek that another <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g18" id="c18">MRU</a> train was being put together in India for military supplies and this was to be demonstrated to the authorities in Delhi. A cold storage unit and ice-plant was also being established in Jhansi and this was where he ended-up – in charge of the plant as a Staff Sergeant and situated alongside the Great Indian Peninsular Railway main line opposite Jhansi engine sheds.</p>
<p class="indent">Derek was able to take advantage of the situation and cultivated the friendship of the engine crews that were willing to allow him to travel with them on many footplate rides. Time was spent in many other areas of India – some of it actually on military business – but eventually he was sent home for demob in 1947, arriving back in Sheffield just a day after daughter Gwyneth’s second birthday in August – to see her for the first time.</p>
<p class="indent">Prior to the war, Derek and Ken had spread their wings (or to be more accurate their bicycle wheels) with regular trips from Sheffield to the Doncaster ‘Plant’ to see the latest Gresley ‘Pacifics’. After visiting Crewe and Chester, Derek developed a great affection for all things LNWR, a considerable change from the Midland and Great Central offerings at Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">Long distance rides to Reading and London followed, enthusiasm ever on the increase. On reaching the age of sixteen, Derek became eligible for membership of the RCTS but the war having started meant this was not to be, at least for the time being. On returning from India, things took up again from where they had left off and Derek was able to join the RCTS and participate in their tours, trips and meetings. On enquiring as to why there was no RCTS branch in Sheffield, he was told by the powers-that-be that if he wanted a branch he should start one! The RCTS Sheffield Branch thus came into being in 1950 and things went to another level for ‘shed-bashes’ and railtours, organised right across the country.</p>
<p class="indent">My father realised that leaving his introduction into the hobby until he was about twelve years old meant he had missed seeing many older types of engines, so he was determined that I would start as soon as I could walk, more or less. My initiation was thus with a visit to Immingham engine shed in 1951 – though I do not remember much about it!</p>
<p class="indent">Following my father’s decision that in order to better his career a move of home would be necessary, we upped sticks as a family and moved to Harrow Weald in North West London in 1957 and so much nearer the Southern Region of BR. Several family holidays were taken in the Isle of Wight, the ancient motive power and rolling-stock making a big impression. My first railway photo was taken on the family Box Brownie camera and the subject was the last ‘Brighton Atlantic’ No. 32424 on its last trip – an RCTS tour on 13 April 1958. Other early photos were taken on the Box Brownie at Eastleigh, Swanage, Poole and Weymouth, hence the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g26" id="c26">SR</a> becoming the first book in the series.</p>
<p class="indent">Now it is time to return to my roots – or at least half my roots – as Sheffield was an LMS and LNER city and I developed a great fondness for both. Time was spent at Midland and Victoria stations as well as at Bernard Road, a vantage point that overlooked the northbound route out of Midland station and the eastern end of Victoria station. The Beighton area was another favourite spot where both the Midland ‘Old Road’ and the GCR lines could be seen in close proximity. Trips were taken out to the Hope Valley and Peak Forest areas and over the Woodhead route to Manchester – I was lucky enough to be on board the first public electric train through the new Woodhead Tunnel in 1954. A particular fascination was the Cromford &amp; High Peak Line, crossing wild and wonderful country by means of steep inclines and mysterious tunnels, parts of the line long since abandoned even in those days.</p>
<p class="indent">One of our next-door neighbours in Gleadless was Harry Ellis, an engine driver who was then approaching retirement age. He had started on the ‘Lanky’ (Lancashire &amp; Yorkshire Railway) as part of an out-based set of men at Doncaster and by that time was working out of Grimesthorpe shed which serviced much of the freight engine requirements on the local former Midland lines, as well as summertime passenger ‘excursions’. He used to regale us with wonderful stories of footplate life, including a first ‘encounter’ with a brand new BR Standard 9F 2-10-0 working a summer special excursion from Sheffield to Blackpool. Another of my father’s friends was the Shed <a id="page7"></a>Foreman at Canklow which afforded us special privileges at that depot!</p>
<p class="indent">Holidays were taken in North Wales, Devon, the Isle of Wight, Scotland and many other places, as well as participating in railtours and ‘shed bashes’, I saw some wonderful sights but this was all before I had my first camera. After we had moved south we often returned to the Sheffield area to visit relatives and once I had a camera was able to photograph some of the activities in my old haunts, though steam traction was by then very much in retreat.</p>
<p class="indent">Our new home in Harrow Weald was only a short walk from the WCML, to a footbridge over the tracks between Harrow &amp; Wealdstone and Headstone Lane stations. LNWR ‘Super D’ 0-8-0s still wheezed about on local goods trains and Stanier ‘Pacifics’ were working the express trains, though the first main line diesels were beginning to appear. My new school was Belmont Primary School and was within earshot of the branch line from Harrow &amp; Wealdstone, Fowler 3MT 2-6-2T No. 40010 being one of the regular engines working the auto-train.</p>
<p class="indent">Visits were made to all the LMR engine sheds in the London area, including Kentish Town, Cricklewood, Devons Road (Bow), Camden, Watford and Willesden, though apart from the latter all these visits were also before I had my first camera.</p>
<p class="indent">My father was never greatly interested in taking photographs, though enjoyed the results of others who were, and I was much influenced by some of the very accomplished photographers who were also members of the RCTS or other societies. As soon as I had passed my 11-plus exam and gained a place at Harrow Weald County Grammar School, I began to research books on photography in the school library so that eventually I could follow in some of their footsteps. After my request for a camera for my thirteenth birthday present, I was surprised and delighted to receive a second-hand folding roll film camera, a Voigtländer Perkeo I – something way beyond my expectations! Having consulted John Edgington, a family friend, RCTS member and prolific photographer, my father had taken his advice and bought this as it would provide a challenge for me and give excellent results if used properly. Some of the results can be seen in this book, so you can judge for yourself! Thus, my proper photography commenced in March 1962 with plenty to do if I was to cover as much of the railway scene as was possible for a schoolboy.</p>
<p class="indent">I was very pleased with the camera and the quality of the pictures produced but one limitation was that it took only twelve pictures on a roll of film, so it had to be eked out. It certainly got me hooked on photography though; my request for a fourteenth birthday present was for a better camera so that I could progress – a 35mm camera would mean being able to take twenty-four or thirty-six photos per film (though the film was not cheap) and I hoped to start into colour photography as well as black &amp; white.</p>
<p class="indent">I plumped for another Voigtländer, this time the Vito CLR, but the cost was beyond my father’s means for a birthday present (he did have three other children clamouring for goodies too!), but we did come to a compromise. He was able to purchase the camera at a discount through a company scheme and then the remaining cost was split between a present and a loan, so I got my camera and learned a useful lesson in life at the same time.</p>
<p class="indent">By now, it was into 1963 and steam traction on the railway was diminishing almost by the hour, there was much to do before it was all too late. Colour film was expensive and although the films could produce thirty-six slides each it was not a case of blazing away in all directions – each frame had to be given due consideration so as not to waste resources. There was not, however, the luxury of only taking pictures in lovely sunshine that was an option for many who had gone before, the opportunity might only arise once to get a shot and if the light was awful then the opportunity still had to be taken or perhaps missed for ever.</p>
<p class="indent">Thus I started out using Kodak Ektachrome reversal film (for colour slides), at 32asa slightly faster than Kodachrome (25asa) and it could be bought without pre-paying for processing, so a slightly cheaper option even after paying for processing once the film was exposed. It could also be processed unmounted and later mounted in plastic slide holders, rather better than the cardboard mounts of Kodachrome. I soon changed to Agfa CT18 film which had a speed of 50asa and so could be used in considerably lower light levels than would have been possible with Kodachrome. It was though a much grainier and softer resolution film than Kodachrome and has not got a great reputation for its archive quality. I have been lucky in that the vast majority of my Agfa slides have stood the test of time, many of them now being well over fifty years old. It also meant the difference of being able <a id="page8"></a>to get a shot in light levels which might not have been possible with Kodachrome – better a slightly grainy shot than no shot at all!</p>
<p class="indent">I never did much in the way of photography at the large London terminal stations (except at Waterloo in later years), preferring to be out taking pictures on the lineside or visiting loco sheds, and during many RCTS rail tours. These often would be for the last run of a particular class of locomotive or the last run over a stretch of line about to be closed, opportunities that had to be made the most of as they would not happen again!</p>
<p class="indent">In order to be able to buy film, I was doing up to three paper rounds a day prior to going to school and also a Saturday morning stint in the local greengrocer’s in Hatch End (where we had moved to from Harrow Weald in 1963), but this meant I had little time to get out and use the film, something of a Catch 22 situation. I usually had to organise someone to stand-in for me at weekends so that trips could be undertaken for photography.</p>
<p class="indent">Family holidays were very much geared up to be spent in areas that still had steam operations, not only on the LMR, but as the years passed so the options became fewer as steam eventually became confined to the north west areas of England from where it was eradicated by August 1968 and before I was out of my teenage years.</p>
<p class="indent">I missed photographing a tremendous amount of steam activity as it was simply not possible to cover the whole country in a few short years on a schoolboy’s budget and with limited time, though my father’s enthusiasm and desire to travel as much as possible helped a great deal. Nevertheless, I was able to record on film much of what was left even as it became something of scramble, decisions having to be made on what to see and what to let go as often things were happening at the same time in different parts of the country.</p>
<p class="indent">Unless I was being ferried around by my father on tours or family trips, my initial photographic efforts depended either on public transport or pushbike but as soon as I turned sixteen, I got a provisional motorbike licence and initially borrowed my sister’s Honda 50 occasionally. This was hardly a racing machine but did mean I could get further afield independently and I graduated to bigger and faster bikes after I passed my driving test. Similarly, as soon as I was seventeen I got a provisional licence for a car and took my test as soon as possible (and passed!) as a provisional driver in a car had to be accompanied by a qualified driver, unlike a motorbike. Thus, for the final eighteen months or so of steam operation I was able to get around rather more, though still with the constraints of being at school and then starting full-time work around October 1967, at the Admiralty Research Laboratories in Teddington.</p>
<p class="indent">My interest in photography inspired me to try to make a career in a related field and to work in the television industry became my goal. My initial overtures to the BBC did not come to fruition as it seemed they wanted a much more technical background in the electronics and optics involved than an ability to compose and make pictures, so I was thwarted to start with. However, in early 1968, new franchises were up for grabs within the ITV companies, one of which, London Weekend Television, was advertising for trainees in sound and camerawork. I was able to apply and went for interview, this time without the technical background; they were much more interested in creative ability. To my joy, I was shortlisted for one of the ten or so vacancies in camerawork but subsequently let down when I received the ‘We’ll keep your details on file’ letter. Unbeknown to me, whilst I was on holiday photographing steam in Northern Ireland in September 1968, a letter from <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g14" id="c14">LWT</a> had arrived at home with a ‘start as soon as you can’ request, which I was fortunate in being able to take up as soon as I returned from holiday, taking a job at Wembley Studios; TV camerawork became my lifelong career and I eventually retired as a freelance around 2010.</p>
<p class="indent">Although this book is entitled ‘London Midland Region’ it is more loosely based on the areas covered by the older ‘Big Four’ London Midland &amp; Scottish Railway, most of its lines becoming the LMR after nationalisation in January 1948. Some lines became parts of other regions, notably the ex-LMS lines in Scotland becoming the Scottish Region of BR, along with former LNER lines in Scotland. Parts of the LMS lines in Yorkshire for instance were later taken over by the Eastern Region (around Sheffield being one example) and the North Eastern Region in the Wakefield and Leeds areas. These areas are included in this book as well as a few original shots from my collection by other photographers taken on Scottish LMS lines – these pictures fill in some photographic gaps of sights I saw in Scotland in 1957 and 1960, before I had a camera.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page9"></a>Not included are lines that became part of the LMR in later years, former Great Central lines for example that became part of the Eastern Region initially and transferred later, also the Cambrian Coast lines that became part of the Western Region to start with and were transferred to the LMR towards the end of steam. These areas will appear in the books dedicated to the Eastern Region and Western Region still to come.</p>
<p class="indent">The vast majority of pictures you will see in this book are my own work, interspersed with a few older shots from my collection, which are captioned as such, and I hope you will find them all enjoyable. The photos start in the London area before heading northwards in a zig-zag sort of pattern and also include some pictures taken along the Bristol to Birmingham route which encompasses the famous ‘Lickey Incline’.</p>
<p class="indent">Comprehensive captions to the photos are included to give loco and/or location backgrounds. These give some build dates, allocations throughout the career of the locos, withdrawal, storage and scrapping information. Please note that these are generalised rather than specific details that have been taken from the usual sources (i.e. not primary sources) such as the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g23" id="c23">RCTS</a> <span class="italic">Railway Observer</span>, SLS Journals and Peter Hands’ booklets on <span class="italic">What Happened to Steam</span>, etc., much of this information compiled into a major database by Peter Kellett, to whom I am very grateful. In recent years, due to a great deal of work done by the HSBT Project (What Really Happened to Steam - <span class="weblink"><span class="underline"><a href="http://www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk">www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk</a></span></span>), it has come to light that much of the information used by many authors may be incorrect, apparently due to the activities of one ‘rogue’ reporter. Thus, the information given here should not be taken as gospel, though I have attempted to use the latest available details, but as the HSBT Project is ongoing, further discrepancies between published data and actual events may come to light.</p></body>
</html>
2023-04-26 20:38:43 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:38:44 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-04-26 20:39:08 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-04-26 20:39:08 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:09 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-26 20:39:10 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:10 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-26 20:39:12 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:12 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-26 20:39:12 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:39:14 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:39:14 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:39:14 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-26 20:39:16 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:16 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<link href="../style/9781473869790.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<title>British railways in the 1960s</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="fmtitle" id="page5">INTRODUCTION</h2>
<p class="noindent">In the first book of this series, covering the Southern Region of British Railways, an explanation was given as to why that took precedence over other areas, considering my being a Yorkshireman.</p>
<p class="indent">I was born and brought up in the Gleadless area of Sheffield, Yorkshire, firmly in London Midland and Eastern Region territory, into a railway-mad family. My father, Derek, had been introduced to the hobby at the age of about twelve by his elder brother Ken during 1935, having been taken to Sheffield Midland station to see a brand-new LMS maroon-liveried ‘Jubilee’ Class 4-6-0, and he was hooked! I made my entrance in March 1949, four years after my sister Gwyneth and followed by brothers Barry and Keith by 1950 and 1953, after which my mother, Margaret, had her hands full!</p>
<p class="indent">Both my mother and father had finished their schooling, latterly being in the same class, at fourteen years-of-age and went into the world of work prior to the outbreak of the Second World War. My father took up an apprenticeship with Brightside Engineering and my mother was helping out with her family’s business running a crockery stall at Sheffield’s covered market, the Sheaf Market, aka the ‘Rag &amp; Tag’, as well as at Walker &amp; Hall’s Cutlery factory. This was much damaged during the German Blitz on Sheffield during December 1940.</p>
<p class="indent">Working in the field of heating and ventilation, my father gained a ‘roving commission’ on projects widely dispersed around the country; this usually required travelling by train in order to reach the sites involved. Frequently, he would be away from home for considerable periods staying in digs. This offered plenty of opportunities to observe the local railway workings wherever he happened to be.</p>
<p class="indent">Eventually, as the war progressed, he was called-up and remarkably the military authorities recognised his engineering ability after initial training, and he joined the Royal Engineers. Further training increased his skills in refrigeration and air-conditioning – also keeping him away from dangerous action, though he was involved in various bombing raids on London and Sheffield as a result of enemy action.</p>
<p class="indent">Like many couples at the time, my parents married at a young age – just nineteen – in September 1943, not knowing how long a future they might have together. (In fact, they celebrated their seventy-second wedding anniversary in September 2015, just a month prior to my father passing away). They managed a week’s honeymoon in Colwyn Bay, travelling by train from Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">They then had to go their separate ways, my mother in the Land Army and my father with the Royal Engineers. By coincidence, they both ended up in the Hereford area for a time and were able to spend a few precious hours together occasionally. Derek was then sent on a course to learn about ‘heat-engines’ at Loughborough and managed to pull some strings to get Margaret transferred to that area too.</p>
<p class="indent">By early 1945, Derek was posted to the Longmoor Military Railway where a specially-constructed Mobile Refrigeration Unit train was being assembled – he and a few fellow Sappers were sent off on a ‘mystery tour’, with the train hauled by Southern Railway motive power. They ended up stabled in a siding at Plymouth Friary for a few days, living in a rudimentary converted passenger coach while they tended the freezer equipment on the train. The condition of the meat stored in the wagons was tested on their return to Longmoor – it was found to be perfect, which was just as well as meat was a scarce resource at the time.</p>
<p class="indent">Within hours of returning to Longmoor, Derek and his team re-joined the rest of their RE colleagues and found themselves on a troop-train to heaven-knows-where. They started their journey behind a Southern Railway engine as far as Mitre Bridge Junction, in West London, where a streamlined LMS ‘Pacific’ took over. No-one knew where they were going but Derek was at least able to work out where they were as the train headed north along the West <a id="page6"></a>Coast Main Line. He concluded that Glasgow was the destination and rumours began to fly that India was the eventual end of the journey.</p>
<p class="indent">Sure enough, two ‘Jubilees’ took over the train outside Glasgow to take it to Greenock Prince’s Pier for embarkation on a small tender ferry out to a large troopship, to begin a few weeks’ voyage to Mumbai (still Bombay in those days), via the Suez Canal. It transpired for Derek that another <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g18" id="c18">MRU</a> train was being put together in India for military supplies and this was to be demonstrated to the authorities in Delhi. A cold storage unit and ice-plant was also being established in Jhansi and this was where he ended-up – in charge of the plant as a Staff Sergeant and situated alongside the Great Indian Peninsular Railway main line opposite Jhansi engine sheds.</p>
<p class="indent">Derek was able to take advantage of the situation and cultivated the friendship of the engine crews that were willing to allow him to travel with them on many footplate rides. Time was spent in many other areas of India – some of it actually on military business – but eventually he was sent home for demob in 1947, arriving back in Sheffield just a day after daughter Gwyneth’s second birthday in August – to see her for the first time.</p>
<p class="indent">Prior to the war, Derek and Ken had spread their wings (or to be more accurate their bicycle wheels) with regular trips from Sheffield to the Doncaster ‘Plant’ to see the latest Gresley ‘Pacifics’. After visiting Crewe and Chester, Derek developed a great affection for all things LNWR, a considerable change from the Midland and Great Central offerings at Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">Long distance rides to Reading and London followed, enthusiasm ever on the increase. On reaching the age of sixteen, Derek became eligible for membership of the RCTS but the war having started meant this was not to be, at least for the time being. On returning from India, things took up again from where they had left off and Derek was able to join the RCTS and participate in their tours, trips and meetings. On enquiring as to why there was no RCTS branch in Sheffield, he was told by the powers-that-be that if he wanted a branch he should start one! The RCTS Sheffield Branch thus came into being in 1950 and things went to another level for ‘shed-bashes’ and railtours, organised right across the country.</p>
<p class="indent">My father realised that leaving his introduction into the hobby until he was about twelve years old meant he had missed seeing many older types of engines, so he was determined that I would start as soon as I could walk, more or less. My initiation was thus with a visit to Immingham engine shed in 1951 – though I do not remember much about it!</p>
<p class="indent">Following my father’s decision that in order to better his career a move of home would be necessary, we upped sticks as a family and moved to Harrow Weald in North West London in 1957 and so much nearer the Southern Region of BR. Several family holidays were taken in the Isle of Wight, the ancient motive power and rolling-stock making a big impression. My first railway photo was taken on the family Box Brownie camera and the subject was the last ‘Brighton Atlantic’ No. 32424 on its last trip – an RCTS tour on 13 April 1958. Other early photos were taken on the Box Brownie at Eastleigh, Swanage, Poole and Weymouth, hence the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g26" id="c26">SR</a> becoming the first book in the series.</p>
<p class="indent">Now it is time to return to my roots – or at least half my roots – as Sheffield was an LMS and LNER city and I developed a great fondness for both. Time was spent at Midland and Victoria stations as well as at Bernard Road, a vantage point that overlooked the northbound route out of Midland station and the eastern end of Victoria station. The Beighton area was another favourite spot where both the Midland ‘Old Road’ and the GCR lines could be seen in close proximity. Trips were taken out to the Hope Valley and Peak Forest areas and over the Woodhead route to Manchester – I was lucky enough to be on board the first public electric train through the new Woodhead Tunnel in 1954. A particular fascination was the Cromford &amp; High Peak Line, crossing wild and wonderful country by means of steep inclines and mysterious tunnels, parts of the line long since abandoned even in those days.</p>
<p class="indent">One of our next-door neighbours in Gleadless was Harry Ellis, an engine driver who was then approaching retirement age. He had started on the ‘Lanky’ (Lancashire &amp; Yorkshire Railway) as part of an out-based set of men at Doncaster and by that time was working out of Grimesthorpe shed which serviced much of the freight engine requirements on the local former Midland lines, as well as summertime passenger ‘excursions’. He used to regale us with wonderful stories of footplate life, including a first ‘encounter’ with a brand new BR Standard 9F 2-10-0 working a summer special excursion from Sheffield to Blackpool. Another of my father’s friends was the Shed <a id="page7"></a>Foreman at Canklow which afforded us special privileges at that depot!</p>
<p class="indent">Holidays were taken in North Wales, Devon, the Isle of Wight, Scotland and many other places, as well as participating in railtours and ‘shed bashes’, I saw some wonderful sights but this was all before I had my first camera. After we had moved south we often returned to the Sheffield area to visit relatives and once I had a camera was able to photograph some of the activities in my old haunts, though steam traction was by then very much in retreat.</p>
<p class="indent">Our new home in Harrow Weald was only a short walk from the WCML, to a footbridge over the tracks between Harrow &amp; Wealdstone and Headstone Lane stations. LNWR ‘Super D’ 0-8-0s still wheezed about on local goods trains and Stanier ‘Pacifics’ were working the express trains, though the first main line diesels were beginning to appear. My new school was Belmont Primary School and was within earshot of the branch line from Harrow &amp; Wealdstone, Fowler 3MT 2-6-2T No. 40010 being one of the regular engines working the auto-train.</p>
<p class="indent">Visits were made to all the LMR engine sheds in the London area, including Kentish Town, Cricklewood, Devons Road (Bow), Camden, Watford and Willesden, though apart from the latter all these visits were also before I had my first camera.</p>
<p class="indent">My father was never greatly interested in taking photographs, though enjoyed the results of others who were, and I was much influenced by some of the very accomplished photographers who were also members of the RCTS or other societies. As soon as I had passed my 11-plus exam and gained a place at Harrow Weald County Grammar School, I began to research books on photography in the school library so that eventually I could follow in some of their footsteps. After my request for a camera for my thirteenth birthday present, I was surprised and delighted to receive a second-hand folding roll film camera, a Voigtländer Perkeo I – something way beyond my expectations! Having consulted John Edgington, a family friend, RCTS member and prolific photographer, my father had taken his advice and bought this as it would provide a challenge for me and give excellent results if used properly. Some of the results can be seen in this book, so you can judge for yourself! Thus, my proper photography commenced in March 1962 with plenty to do if I was to cover as much of the railway scene as was possible for a schoolboy.</p>
<p class="indent">I was very pleased with the camera and the quality of the pictures produced but one limitation was that it took only twelve pictures on a roll of film, so it had to be eked out. It certainly got me hooked on photography though; my request for a fourteenth birthday present was for a better camera so that I could progress – a 35mm camera would mean being able to take twenty-four or thirty-six photos per film (though the film was not cheap) and I hoped to start into colour photography as well as black &amp; white.</p>
<p class="indent">I plumped for another Voigtländer, this time the Vito CLR, but the cost was beyond my father’s means for a birthday present (he did have three other children clamouring for goodies too!), but we did come to a compromise. He was able to purchase the camera at a discount through a company scheme and then the remaining cost was split between a present and a loan, so I got my camera and learned a useful lesson in life at the same time.</p>
<p class="indent">By now, it was into 1963 and steam traction on the railway was diminishing almost by the hour, there was much to do before it was all too late. Colour film was expensive and although the films could produce thirty-six slides each it was not a case of blazing away in all directions – each frame had to be given due consideration so as not to waste resources. There was not, however, the luxury of only taking pictures in lovely sunshine that was an option for many who had gone before, the opportunity might only arise once to get a shot and if the light was awful then the opportunity still had to be taken or perhaps missed for ever.</p>
<p class="indent">Thus I started out using Kodak Ektachrome reversal film (for colour slides), at 32asa slightly faster than Kodachrome (25asa) and it could be bought without pre-paying for processing, so a slightly cheaper option even after paying for processing once the film was exposed. It could also be processed unmounted and later mounted in plastic slide holders, rather better than the cardboard mounts of Kodachrome. I soon changed to Agfa CT18 film which had a speed of 50asa and so could be used in considerably lower light levels than would have been possible with Kodachrome. It was though a much grainier and softer resolution film than Kodachrome and has not got a great reputation for its archive quality. I have been lucky in that the vast majority of my Agfa slides have stood the test of time, many of them now being well over fifty years old. It also meant the difference of being able <a id="page8"></a>to get a shot in light levels which might not have been possible with Kodachrome – better a slightly grainy shot than no shot at all!</p>
<p class="indent">I never did much in the way of photography at the large London terminal stations (except at Waterloo in later years), preferring to be out taking pictures on the lineside or visiting loco sheds, and during many RCTS rail tours. These often would be for the last run of a particular class of locomotive or the last run over a stretch of line about to be closed, opportunities that had to be made the most of as they would not happen again!</p>
<p class="indent">In order to be able to buy film, I was doing up to three paper rounds a day prior to going to school and also a Saturday morning stint in the local greengrocer’s in Hatch End (where we had moved to from Harrow Weald in 1963), but this meant I had little time to get out and use the film, something of a Catch 22 situation. I usually had to organise someone to stand-in for me at weekends so that trips could be undertaken for photography.</p>
<p class="indent">Family holidays were very much geared up to be spent in areas that still had steam operations, not only on the LMR, but as the years passed so the options became fewer as steam eventually became confined to the north west areas of England from where it was eradicated by August 1968 and before I was out of my teenage years.</p>
<p class="indent">I missed photographing a tremendous amount of steam activity as it was simply not possible to cover the whole country in a few short years on a schoolboy’s budget and with limited time, though my father’s enthusiasm and desire to travel as much as possible helped a great deal. Nevertheless, I was able to record on film much of what was left even as it became something of scramble, decisions having to be made on what to see and what to let go as often things were happening at the same time in different parts of the country.</p>
<p class="indent">Unless I was being ferried around by my father on tours or family trips, my initial photographic efforts depended either on public transport or pushbike but as soon as I turned sixteen, I got a provisional motorbike licence and initially borrowed my sister’s Honda 50 occasionally. This was hardly a racing machine but did mean I could get further afield independently and I graduated to bigger and faster bikes after I passed my driving test. Similarly, as soon as I was seventeen I got a provisional licence for a car and took my test as soon as possible (and passed!) as a provisional driver in a car had to be accompanied by a qualified driver, unlike a motorbike. Thus, for the final eighteen months or so of steam operation I was able to get around rather more, though still with the constraints of being at school and then starting full-time work around October 1967, at the Admiralty Research Laboratories in Teddington.</p>
<p class="indent">My interest in photography inspired me to try to make a career in a related field and to work in the television industry became my goal. My initial overtures to the BBC did not come to fruition as it seemed they wanted a much more technical background in the electronics and optics involved than an ability to compose and make pictures, so I was thwarted to start with. However, in early 1968, new franchises were up for grabs within the ITV companies, one of which, London Weekend Television, was advertising for trainees in sound and camerawork. I was able to apply and went for interview, this time without the technical background; they were much more interested in creative ability. To my joy, I was shortlisted for one of the ten or so vacancies in camerawork but subsequently let down when I received the ‘We’ll keep your details on file’ letter. Unbeknown to me, whilst I was on holiday photographing steam in Northern Ireland in September 1968, a letter from <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g14" id="c14">LWT</a> had arrived at home with a ‘start as soon as you can’ request, which I was fortunate in being able to take up as soon as I returned from holiday, taking a job at Wembley Studios; TV camerawork became my lifelong career and I eventually retired as a freelance around 2010.</p>
<p class="indent">Although this book is entitled ‘London Midland Region’ it is more loosely based on the areas covered by the older ‘Big Four’ London Midland &amp; Scottish Railway, most of its lines becoming the LMR after nationalisation in January 1948. Some lines became parts of other regions, notably the ex-LMS lines in Scotland becoming the Scottish Region of BR, along with former LNER lines in Scotland. Parts of the LMS lines in Yorkshire for instance were later taken over by the Eastern Region (around Sheffield being one example) and the North Eastern Region in the Wakefield and Leeds areas. These areas are included in this book as well as a few original shots from my collection by other photographers taken on Scottish LMS lines – these pictures fill in some photographic gaps of sights I saw in Scotland in 1957 and 1960, before I had a camera.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page9"></a>Not included are lines that became part of the LMR in later years, former Great Central lines for example that became part of the Eastern Region initially and transferred later, also the Cambrian Coast lines that became part of the Western Region to start with and were transferred to the LMR towards the end of steam. These areas will appear in the books dedicated to the Eastern Region and Western Region still to come.</p>
<p class="indent">The vast majority of pictures you will see in this book are my own work, interspersed with a few older shots from my collection, which are captioned as such, and I hope you will find them all enjoyable. The photos start in the London area before heading northwards in a zig-zag sort of pattern and also include some pictures taken along the Bristol to Birmingham route which encompasses the famous ‘Lickey Incline’.</p>
<p class="indent">Comprehensive captions to the photos are included to give loco and/or location backgrounds. These give some build dates, allocations throughout the career of the locos, withdrawal, storage and scrapping information. Please note that these are generalised rather than specific details that have been taken from the usual sources (i.e. not primary sources) such as the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g23" id="c23">RCTS</a> <span class="italic">Railway Observer</span>, SLS Journals and Peter Hands’ booklets on <span class="italic">What Happened to Steam</span>, etc., much of this information compiled into a major database by Peter Kellett, to whom I am very grateful. In recent years, due to a great deal of work done by the HSBT Project (What Really Happened to Steam - <span class="weblink"><span class="underline"><a href="http://www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk">www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk</a></span></span>), it has come to light that much of the information used by many authors may be incorrect, apparently due to the activities of one ‘rogue’ reporter. Thus, the information given here should not be taken as gospel, though I have attempted to use the latest available details, but as the HSBT Project is ongoing, further discrepancies between published data and actual events may come to light.</p></body>
</html>
2023-04-26 20:39:16 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:16 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-26 20:39:17 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:17 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-26 20:39:18 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:19 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-26 20:39:19 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:39:19 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-26 20:39:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:21 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<link href="../style/9781473869790.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<title>British railways in the 1960s</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="fmtitle" id="page5">INTRODUCTION</h2>
<p class="noindent">In the first book of this series, covering the Southern Region of British Railways, an explanation was given as to why that took precedence over other areas, considering my being a Yorkshireman.</p>
<p class="indent">I was born and brought up in the Gleadless area of Sheffield, Yorkshire, firmly in London Midland and Eastern Region territory, into a railway-mad family. My father, Derek, had been introduced to the hobby at the age of about twelve by his elder brother Ken during 1935, having been taken to Sheffield Midland station to see a brand-new LMS maroon-liveried ‘Jubilee’ Class 4-6-0, and he was hooked! I made my entrance in March 1949, four years after my sister Gwyneth and followed by brothers Barry and Keith by 1950 and 1953, after which my mother, Margaret, had her hands full!</p>
<p class="indent">Both my mother and father had finished their schooling, latterly being in the same class, at fourteen years-of-age and went into the world of work prior to the outbreak of the Second World War. My father took up an apprenticeship with Brightside Engineering and my mother was helping out with her family’s business running a crockery stall at Sheffield’s covered market, the Sheaf Market, aka the ‘Rag &amp; Tag’, as well as at Walker &amp; Hall’s Cutlery factory. This was much damaged during the German Blitz on Sheffield during December 1940.</p>
<p class="indent">Working in the field of heating and ventilation, my father gained a ‘roving commission’ on projects widely dispersed around the country; this usually required travelling by train in order to reach the sites involved. Frequently, he would be away from home for considerable periods staying in digs. This offered plenty of opportunities to observe the local railway workings wherever he happened to be.</p>
<p class="indent">Eventually, as the war progressed, he was called-up and remarkably the military authorities recognised his engineering ability after initial training, and he joined the Royal Engineers. Further training increased his skills in refrigeration and air-conditioning – also keeping him away from dangerous action, though he was involved in various bombing raids on London and Sheffield as a result of enemy action.</p>
<p class="indent">Like many couples at the time, my parents married at a young age – just nineteen – in September 1943, not knowing how long a future they might have together. (In fact, they celebrated their seventy-second wedding anniversary in September 2015, just a month prior to my father passing away). They managed a week’s honeymoon in Colwyn Bay, travelling by train from Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">They then had to go their separate ways, my mother in the Land Army and my father with the Royal Engineers. By coincidence, they both ended up in the Hereford area for a time and were able to spend a few precious hours together occasionally. Derek was then sent on a course to learn about ‘heat-engines’ at Loughborough and managed to pull some strings to get Margaret transferred to that area too.</p>
<p class="indent">By early 1945, Derek was posted to the Longmoor Military Railway where a specially-constructed Mobile Refrigeration Unit train was being assembled – he and a few fellow Sappers were sent off on a ‘mystery tour’, with the train hauled by Southern Railway motive power. They ended up stabled in a siding at Plymouth Friary for a few days, living in a rudimentary converted passenger coach while they tended the freezer equipment on the train. The condition of the meat stored in the wagons was tested on their return to Longmoor – it was found to be perfect, which was just as well as meat was a scarce resource at the time.</p>
<p class="indent">Within hours of returning to Longmoor, Derek and his team re-joined the rest of their RE colleagues and found themselves on a troop-train to heaven-knows-where. They started their journey behind a Southern Railway engine as far as Mitre Bridge Junction, in West London, where a streamlined LMS ‘Pacific’ took over. No-one knew where they were going but Derek was at least able to work out where they were as the train headed north along the West <a id="page6"></a>Coast Main Line. He concluded that Glasgow was the destination and rumours began to fly that India was the eventual end of the journey.</p>
<p class="indent">Sure enough, two ‘Jubilees’ took over the train outside Glasgow to take it to Greenock Prince’s Pier for embarkation on a small tender ferry out to a large troopship, to begin a few weeks’ voyage to Mumbai (still Bombay in those days), via the Suez Canal. It transpired for Derek that another <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g18" id="c18">MRU</a> train was being put together in India for military supplies and this was to be demonstrated to the authorities in Delhi. A cold storage unit and ice-plant was also being established in Jhansi and this was where he ended-up – in charge of the plant as a Staff Sergeant and situated alongside the Great Indian Peninsular Railway main line opposite Jhansi engine sheds.</p>
<p class="indent">Derek was able to take advantage of the situation and cultivated the friendship of the engine crews that were willing to allow him to travel with them on many footplate rides. Time was spent in many other areas of India – some of it actually on military business – but eventually he was sent home for demob in 1947, arriving back in Sheffield just a day after daughter Gwyneth’s second birthday in August – to see her for the first time.</p>
<p class="indent">Prior to the war, Derek and Ken had spread their wings (or to be more accurate their bicycle wheels) with regular trips from Sheffield to the Doncaster ‘Plant’ to see the latest Gresley ‘Pacifics’. After visiting Crewe and Chester, Derek developed a great affection for all things LNWR, a considerable change from the Midland and Great Central offerings at Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">Long distance rides to Reading and London followed, enthusiasm ever on the increase. On reaching the age of sixteen, Derek became eligible for membership of the RCTS but the war having started meant this was not to be, at least for the time being. On returning from India, things took up again from where they had left off and Derek was able to join the RCTS and participate in their tours, trips and meetings. On enquiring as to why there was no RCTS branch in Sheffield, he was told by the powers-that-be that if he wanted a branch he should start one! The RCTS Sheffield Branch thus came into being in 1950 and things went to another level for ‘shed-bashes’ and railtours, organised right across the country.</p>
<p class="indent">My father realised that leaving his introduction into the hobby until he was about twelve years old meant he had missed seeing many older types of engines, so he was determined that I would start as soon as I could walk, more or less. My initiation was thus with a visit to Immingham engine shed in 1951 – though I do not remember much about it!</p>
<p class="indent">Following my father’s decision that in order to better his career a move of home would be necessary, we upped sticks as a family and moved to Harrow Weald in North West London in 1957 and so much nearer the Southern Region of BR. Several family holidays were taken in the Isle of Wight, the ancient motive power and rolling-stock making a big impression. My first railway photo was taken on the family Box Brownie camera and the subject was the last ‘Brighton Atlantic’ No. 32424 on its last trip – an RCTS tour on 13 April 1958. Other early photos were taken on the Box Brownie at Eastleigh, Swanage, Poole and Weymouth, hence the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g26" id="c26">SR</a> becoming the first book in the series.</p>
<p class="indent">Now it is time to return to my roots – or at least half my roots – as Sheffield was an LMS and LNER city and I developed a great fondness for both. Time was spent at Midland and Victoria stations as well as at Bernard Road, a vantage point that overlooked the northbound route out of Midland station and the eastern end of Victoria station. The Beighton area was another favourite spot where both the Midland ‘Old Road’ and the GCR lines could be seen in close proximity. Trips were taken out to the Hope Valley and Peak Forest areas and over the Woodhead route to Manchester – I was lucky enough to be on board the first public electric train through the new Woodhead Tunnel in 1954. A particular fascination was the Cromford &amp; High Peak Line, crossing wild and wonderful country by means of steep inclines and mysterious tunnels, parts of the line long since abandoned even in those days.</p>
<p class="indent">One of our next-door neighbours in Gleadless was Harry Ellis, an engine driver who was then approaching retirement age. He had started on the ‘Lanky’ (Lancashire &amp; Yorkshire Railway) as part of an out-based set of men at Doncaster and by that time was working out of Grimesthorpe shed which serviced much of the freight engine requirements on the local former Midland lines, as well as summertime passenger ‘excursions’. He used to regale us with wonderful stories of footplate life, including a first ‘encounter’ with a brand new BR Standard 9F 2-10-0 working a summer special excursion from Sheffield to Blackpool. Another of my father’s friends was the Shed <a id="page7"></a>Foreman at Canklow which afforded us special privileges at that depot!</p>
<p class="indent">Holidays were taken in North Wales, Devon, the Isle of Wight, Scotland and many other places, as well as participating in railtours and ‘shed bashes’, I saw some wonderful sights but this was all before I had my first camera. After we had moved south we often returned to the Sheffield area to visit relatives and once I had a camera was able to photograph some of the activities in my old haunts, though steam traction was by then very much in retreat.</p>
<p class="indent">Our new home in Harrow Weald was only a short walk from the WCML, to a footbridge over the tracks between Harrow &amp; Wealdstone and Headstone Lane stations. LNWR ‘Super D’ 0-8-0s still wheezed about on local goods trains and Stanier ‘Pacifics’ were working the express trains, though the first main line diesels were beginning to appear. My new school was Belmont Primary School and was within earshot of the branch line from Harrow &amp; Wealdstone, Fowler 3MT 2-6-2T No. 40010 being one of the regular engines working the auto-train.</p>
<p class="indent">Visits were made to all the LMR engine sheds in the London area, including Kentish Town, Cricklewood, Devons Road (Bow), Camden, Watford and Willesden, though apart from the latter all these visits were also before I had my first camera.</p>
<p class="indent">My father was never greatly interested in taking photographs, though enjoyed the results of others who were, and I was much influenced by some of the very accomplished photographers who were also members of the RCTS or other societies. As soon as I had passed my 11-plus exam and gained a place at Harrow Weald County Grammar School, I began to research books on photography in the school library so that eventually I could follow in some of their footsteps. After my request for a camera for my thirteenth birthday present, I was surprised and delighted to receive a second-hand folding roll film camera, a Voigtländer Perkeo I – something way beyond my expectations! Having consulted John Edgington, a family friend, RCTS member and prolific photographer, my father had taken his advice and bought this as it would provide a challenge for me and give excellent results if used properly. Some of the results can be seen in this book, so you can judge for yourself! Thus, my proper photography commenced in March 1962 with plenty to do if I was to cover as much of the railway scene as was possible for a schoolboy.</p>
<p class="indent">I was very pleased with the camera and the quality of the pictures produced but one limitation was that it took only twelve pictures on a roll of film, so it had to be eked out. It certainly got me hooked on photography though; my request for a fourteenth birthday present was for a better camera so that I could progress – a 35mm camera would mean being able to take twenty-four or thirty-six photos per film (though the film was not cheap) and I hoped to start into colour photography as well as black &amp; white.</p>
<p class="indent">I plumped for another Voigtländer, this time the Vito CLR, but the cost was beyond my father’s means for a birthday present (he did have three other children clamouring for goodies too!), but we did come to a compromise. He was able to purchase the camera at a discount through a company scheme and then the remaining cost was split between a present and a loan, so I got my camera and learned a useful lesson in life at the same time.</p>
<p class="indent">By now, it was into 1963 and steam traction on the railway was diminishing almost by the hour, there was much to do before it was all too late. Colour film was expensive and although the films could produce thirty-six slides each it was not a case of blazing away in all directions – each frame had to be given due consideration so as not to waste resources. There was not, however, the luxury of only taking pictures in lovely sunshine that was an option for many who had gone before, the opportunity might only arise once to get a shot and if the light was awful then the opportunity still had to be taken or perhaps missed for ever.</p>
<p class="indent">Thus I started out using Kodak Ektachrome reversal film (for colour slides), at 32asa slightly faster than Kodachrome (25asa) and it could be bought without pre-paying for processing, so a slightly cheaper option even after paying for processing once the film was exposed. It could also be processed unmounted and later mounted in plastic slide holders, rather better than the cardboard mounts of Kodachrome. I soon changed to Agfa CT18 film which had a speed of 50asa and so could be used in considerably lower light levels than would have been possible with Kodachrome. It was though a much grainier and softer resolution film than Kodachrome and has not got a great reputation for its archive quality. I have been lucky in that the vast majority of my Agfa slides have stood the test of time, many of them now being well over fifty years old. It also meant the difference of being able <a id="page8"></a>to get a shot in light levels which might not have been possible with Kodachrome – better a slightly grainy shot than no shot at all!</p>
<p class="indent">I never did much in the way of photography at the large London terminal stations (except at Waterloo in later years), preferring to be out taking pictures on the lineside or visiting loco sheds, and during many RCTS rail tours. These often would be for the last run of a particular class of locomotive or the last run over a stretch of line about to be closed, opportunities that had to be made the most of as they would not happen again!</p>
<p class="indent">In order to be able to buy film, I was doing up to three paper rounds a day prior to going to school and also a Saturday morning stint in the local greengrocer’s in Hatch End (where we had moved to from Harrow Weald in 1963), but this meant I had little time to get out and use the film, something of a Catch 22 situation. I usually had to organise someone to stand-in for me at weekends so that trips could be undertaken for photography.</p>
<p class="indent">Family holidays were very much geared up to be spent in areas that still had steam operations, not only on the LMR, but as the years passed so the options became fewer as steam eventually became confined to the north west areas of England from where it was eradicated by August 1968 and before I was out of my teenage years.</p>
<p class="indent">I missed photographing a tremendous amount of steam activity as it was simply not possible to cover the whole country in a few short years on a schoolboy’s budget and with limited time, though my father’s enthusiasm and desire to travel as much as possible helped a great deal. Nevertheless, I was able to record on film much of what was left even as it became something of scramble, decisions having to be made on what to see and what to let go as often things were happening at the same time in different parts of the country.</p>
<p class="indent">Unless I was being ferried around by my father on tours or family trips, my initial photographic efforts depended either on public transport or pushbike but as soon as I turned sixteen, I got a provisional motorbike licence and initially borrowed my sister’s Honda 50 occasionally. This was hardly a racing machine but did mean I could get further afield independently and I graduated to bigger and faster bikes after I passed my driving test. Similarly, as soon as I was seventeen I got a provisional licence for a car and took my test as soon as possible (and passed!) as a provisional driver in a car had to be accompanied by a qualified driver, unlike a motorbike. Thus, for the final eighteen months or so of steam operation I was able to get around rather more, though still with the constraints of being at school and then starting full-time work around October 1967, at the Admiralty Research Laboratories in Teddington.</p>
<p class="indent">My interest in photography inspired me to try to make a career in a related field and to work in the television industry became my goal. My initial overtures to the BBC did not come to fruition as it seemed they wanted a much more technical background in the electronics and optics involved than an ability to compose and make pictures, so I was thwarted to start with. However, in early 1968, new franchises were up for grabs within the ITV companies, one of which, London Weekend Television, was advertising for trainees in sound and camerawork. I was able to apply and went for interview, this time without the technical background; they were much more interested in creative ability. To my joy, I was shortlisted for one of the ten or so vacancies in camerawork but subsequently let down when I received the ‘We’ll keep your details on file’ letter. Unbeknown to me, whilst I was on holiday photographing steam in Northern Ireland in September 1968, a letter from <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g14" id="c14">LWT</a> had arrived at home with a ‘start as soon as you can’ request, which I was fortunate in being able to take up as soon as I returned from holiday, taking a job at Wembley Studios; TV camerawork became my lifelong career and I eventually retired as a freelance around 2010.</p>
<p class="indent">Although this book is entitled ‘London Midland Region’ it is more loosely based on the areas covered by the older ‘Big Four’ London Midland &amp; Scottish Railway, most of its lines becoming the LMR after nationalisation in January 1948. Some lines became parts of other regions, notably the ex-LMS lines in Scotland becoming the Scottish Region of BR, along with former LNER lines in Scotland. Parts of the LMS lines in Yorkshire for instance were later taken over by the Eastern Region (around Sheffield being one example) and the North Eastern Region in the Wakefield and Leeds areas. These areas are included in this book as well as a few original shots from my collection by other photographers taken on Scottish LMS lines – these pictures fill in some photographic gaps of sights I saw in Scotland in 1957 and 1960, before I had a camera.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page9"></a>Not included are lines that became part of the LMR in later years, former Great Central lines for example that became part of the Eastern Region initially and transferred later, also the Cambrian Coast lines that became part of the Western Region to start with and were transferred to the LMR towards the end of steam. These areas will appear in the books dedicated to the Eastern Region and Western Region still to come.</p>
<p class="indent">The vast majority of pictures you will see in this book are my own work, interspersed with a few older shots from my collection, which are captioned as such, and I hope you will find them all enjoyable. The photos start in the London area before heading northwards in a zig-zag sort of pattern and also include some pictures taken along the Bristol to Birmingham route which encompasses the famous ‘Lickey Incline’.</p>
<p class="indent">Comprehensive captions to the photos are included to give loco and/or location backgrounds. These give some build dates, allocations throughout the career of the locos, withdrawal, storage and scrapping information. Please note that these are generalised rather than specific details that have been taken from the usual sources (i.e. not primary sources) such as the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g23" id="c23">RCTS</a> <span class="italic">Railway Observer</span>, SLS Journals and Peter Hands’ booklets on <span class="italic">What Happened to Steam</span>, etc., much of this information compiled into a major database by Peter Kellett, to whom I am very grateful. In recent years, due to a great deal of work done by the HSBT Project (What Really Happened to Steam - <span class="weblink"><span class="underline"><a href="http://www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk">www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk</a></span></span>), it has come to light that much of the information used by many authors may be incorrect, apparently due to the activities of one ‘rogue’ reporter. Thus, the information given here should not be taken as gospel, though I have attempted to use the latest available details, but as the HSBT Project is ongoing, further discrepancies between published data and actual events may come to light.</p></body>
</html>
2023-04-26 20:39:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:21 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-04-26 20:39:22 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:22 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-04-26 20:39:22 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:23 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-04-26 20:39:23 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-26 20:39:23 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-26 20:39:24 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:24 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<link href="../style/9781473869790.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<title>British railways in the 1960s</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="fmtitle" id="page5">INTRODUCTION</h2>
<p class="noindent">In the first book of this series, covering the Southern Region of British Railways, an explanation was given as to why that took precedence over other areas, considering my being a Yorkshireman.</p>
<p class="indent">I was born and brought up in the Gleadless area of Sheffield, Yorkshire, firmly in London Midland and Eastern Region territory, into a railway-mad family. My father, Derek, had been introduced to the hobby at the age of about twelve by his elder brother Ken during 1935, having been taken to Sheffield Midland station to see a brand-new LMS maroon-liveried ‘Jubilee’ Class 4-6-0, and he was hooked! I made my entrance in March 1949, four years after my sister Gwyneth and followed by brothers Barry and Keith by 1950 and 1953, after which my mother, Margaret, had her hands full!</p>
<p class="indent">Both my mother and father had finished their schooling, latterly being in the same class, at fourteen years-of-age and went into the world of work prior to the outbreak of the Second World War. My father took up an apprenticeship with Brightside Engineering and my mother was helping out with her family’s business running a crockery stall at Sheffield’s covered market, the Sheaf Market, aka the ‘Rag &amp; Tag’, as well as at Walker &amp; Hall’s Cutlery factory. This was much damaged during the German Blitz on Sheffield during December 1940.</p>
<p class="indent">Working in the field of heating and ventilation, my father gained a ‘roving commission’ on projects widely dispersed around the country; this usually required travelling by train in order to reach the sites involved. Frequently, he would be away from home for considerable periods staying in digs. This offered plenty of opportunities to observe the local railway workings wherever he happened to be.</p>
<p class="indent">Eventually, as the war progressed, he was called-up and remarkably the military authorities recognised his engineering ability after initial training, and he joined the Royal Engineers. Further training increased his skills in refrigeration and air-conditioning – also keeping him away from dangerous action, though he was involved in various bombing raids on London and Sheffield as a result of enemy action.</p>
<p class="indent">Like many couples at the time, my parents married at a young age – just nineteen – in September 1943, not knowing how long a future they might have together. (In fact, they celebrated their seventy-second wedding anniversary in September 2015, just a month prior to my father passing away). They managed a week’s honeymoon in Colwyn Bay, travelling by train from Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">They then had to go their separate ways, my mother in the Land Army and my father with the Royal Engineers. By coincidence, they both ended up in the Hereford area for a time and were able to spend a few precious hours together occasionally. Derek was then sent on a course to learn about ‘heat-engines’ at Loughborough and managed to pull some strings to get Margaret transferred to that area too.</p>
<p class="indent">By early 1945, Derek was posted to the Longmoor Military Railway where a specially-constructed Mobile Refrigeration Unit train was being assembled – he and a few fellow Sappers were sent off on a ‘mystery tour’, with the train hauled by Southern Railway motive power. They ended up stabled in a siding at Plymouth Friary for a few days, living in a rudimentary converted passenger coach while they tended the freezer equipment on the train. The condition of the meat stored in the wagons was tested on their return to Longmoor – it was found to be perfect, which was just as well as meat was a scarce resource at the time.</p>
<p class="indent">Within hours of returning to Longmoor, Derek and his team re-joined the rest of their RE colleagues and found themselves on a troop-train to heaven-knows-where. They started their journey behind a Southern Railway engine as far as Mitre Bridge Junction, in West London, where a streamlined LMS ‘Pacific’ took over. No-one knew where they were going but Derek was at least able to work out where they were as the train headed north along the West <a id="page6"></a>Coast Main Line. He concluded that Glasgow was the destination and rumours began to fly that India was the eventual end of the journey.</p>
<p class="indent">Sure enough, two ‘Jubilees’ took over the train outside Glasgow to take it to Greenock Prince’s Pier for embarkation on a small tender ferry out to a large troopship, to begin a few weeks’ voyage to Mumbai (still Bombay in those days), via the Suez Canal. It transpired for Derek that another <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g18" id="c18">MRU</a> train was being put together in India for military supplies and this was to be demonstrated to the authorities in Delhi. A cold storage unit and ice-plant was also being established in Jhansi and this was where he ended-up – in charge of the plant as a Staff Sergeant and situated alongside the Great Indian Peninsular Railway main line opposite Jhansi engine sheds.</p>
<p class="indent">Derek was able to take advantage of the situation and cultivated the friendship of the engine crews that were willing to allow him to travel with them on many footplate rides. Time was spent in many other areas of India – some of it actually on military business – but eventually he was sent home for demob in 1947, arriving back in Sheffield just a day after daughter Gwyneth’s second birthday in August – to see her for the first time.</p>
<p class="indent">Prior to the war, Derek and Ken had spread their wings (or to be more accurate their bicycle wheels) with regular trips from Sheffield to the Doncaster ‘Plant’ to see the latest Gresley ‘Pacifics’. After visiting Crewe and Chester, Derek developed a great affection for all things LNWR, a considerable change from the Midland and Great Central offerings at Sheffield.</p>
<p class="indent">Long distance rides to Reading and London followed, enthusiasm ever on the increase. On reaching the age of sixteen, Derek became eligible for membership of the RCTS but the war having started meant this was not to be, at least for the time being. On returning from India, things took up again from where they had left off and Derek was able to join the RCTS and participate in their tours, trips and meetings. On enquiring as to why there was no RCTS branch in Sheffield, he was told by the powers-that-be that if he wanted a branch he should start one! The RCTS Sheffield Branch thus came into being in 1950 and things went to another level for ‘shed-bashes’ and railtours, organised right across the country.</p>
<p class="indent">My father realised that leaving his introduction into the hobby until he was about twelve years old meant he had missed seeing many older types of engines, so he was determined that I would start as soon as I could walk, more or less. My initiation was thus with a visit to Immingham engine shed in 1951 – though I do not remember much about it!</p>
<p class="indent">Following my father’s decision that in order to better his career a move of home would be necessary, we upped sticks as a family and moved to Harrow Weald in North West London in 1957 and so much nearer the Southern Region of BR. Several family holidays were taken in the Isle of Wight, the ancient motive power and rolling-stock making a big impression. My first railway photo was taken on the family Box Brownie camera and the subject was the last ‘Brighton Atlantic’ No. 32424 on its last trip – an RCTS tour on 13 April 1958. Other early photos were taken on the Box Brownie at Eastleigh, Swanage, Poole and Weymouth, hence the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g26" id="c26">SR</a> becoming the first book in the series.</p>
<p class="indent">Now it is time to return to my roots – or at least half my roots – as Sheffield was an LMS and LNER city and I developed a great fondness for both. Time was spent at Midland and Victoria stations as well as at Bernard Road, a vantage point that overlooked the northbound route out of Midland station and the eastern end of Victoria station. The Beighton area was another favourite spot where both the Midland ‘Old Road’ and the GCR lines could be seen in close proximity. Trips were taken out to the Hope Valley and Peak Forest areas and over the Woodhead route to Manchester – I was lucky enough to be on board the first public electric train through the new Woodhead Tunnel in 1954. A particular fascination was the Cromford &amp; High Peak Line, crossing wild and wonderful country by means of steep inclines and mysterious tunnels, parts of the line long since abandoned even in those days.</p>
<p class="indent">One of our next-door neighbours in Gleadless was Harry Ellis, an engine driver who was then approaching retirement age. He had started on the ‘Lanky’ (Lancashire &amp; Yorkshire Railway) as part of an out-based set of men at Doncaster and by that time was working out of Grimesthorpe shed which serviced much of the freight engine requirements on the local former Midland lines, as well as summertime passenger ‘excursions’. He used to regale us with wonderful stories of footplate life, including a first ‘encounter’ with a brand new BR Standard 9F 2-10-0 working a summer special excursion from Sheffield to Blackpool. Another of my father’s friends was the Shed <a id="page7"></a>Foreman at Canklow which afforded us special privileges at that depot!</p>
<p class="indent">Holidays were taken in North Wales, Devon, the Isle of Wight, Scotland and many other places, as well as participating in railtours and ‘shed bashes’, I saw some wonderful sights but this was all before I had my first camera. After we had moved south we often returned to the Sheffield area to visit relatives and once I had a camera was able to photograph some of the activities in my old haunts, though steam traction was by then very much in retreat.</p>
<p class="indent">Our new home in Harrow Weald was only a short walk from the WCML, to a footbridge over the tracks between Harrow &amp; Wealdstone and Headstone Lane stations. LNWR ‘Super D’ 0-8-0s still wheezed about on local goods trains and Stanier ‘Pacifics’ were working the express trains, though the first main line diesels were beginning to appear. My new school was Belmont Primary School and was within earshot of the branch line from Harrow &amp; Wealdstone, Fowler 3MT 2-6-2T No. 40010 being one of the regular engines working the auto-train.</p>
<p class="indent">Visits were made to all the LMR engine sheds in the London area, including Kentish Town, Cricklewood, Devons Road (Bow), Camden, Watford and Willesden, though apart from the latter all these visits were also before I had my first camera.</p>
<p class="indent">My father was never greatly interested in taking photographs, though enjoyed the results of others who were, and I was much influenced by some of the very accomplished photographers who were also members of the RCTS or other societies. As soon as I had passed my 11-plus exam and gained a place at Harrow Weald County Grammar School, I began to research books on photography in the school library so that eventually I could follow in some of their footsteps. After my request for a camera for my thirteenth birthday present, I was surprised and delighted to receive a second-hand folding roll film camera, a Voigtländer Perkeo I – something way beyond my expectations! Having consulted John Edgington, a family friend, RCTS member and prolific photographer, my father had taken his advice and bought this as it would provide a challenge for me and give excellent results if used properly. Some of the results can be seen in this book, so you can judge for yourself! Thus, my proper photography commenced in March 1962 with plenty to do if I was to cover as much of the railway scene as was possible for a schoolboy.</p>
<p class="indent">I was very pleased with the camera and the quality of the pictures produced but one limitation was that it took only twelve pictures on a roll of film, so it had to be eked out. It certainly got me hooked on photography though; my request for a fourteenth birthday present was for a better camera so that I could progress – a 35mm camera would mean being able to take twenty-four or thirty-six photos per film (though the film was not cheap) and I hoped to start into colour photography as well as black &amp; white.</p>
<p class="indent">I plumped for another Voigtländer, this time the Vito CLR, but the cost was beyond my father’s means for a birthday present (he did have three other children clamouring for goodies too!), but we did come to a compromise. He was able to purchase the camera at a discount through a company scheme and then the remaining cost was split between a present and a loan, so I got my camera and learned a useful lesson in life at the same time.</p>
<p class="indent">By now, it was into 1963 and steam traction on the railway was diminishing almost by the hour, there was much to do before it was all too late. Colour film was expensive and although the films could produce thirty-six slides each it was not a case of blazing away in all directions – each frame had to be given due consideration so as not to waste resources. There was not, however, the luxury of only taking pictures in lovely sunshine that was an option for many who had gone before, the opportunity might only arise once to get a shot and if the light was awful then the opportunity still had to be taken or perhaps missed for ever.</p>
<p class="indent">Thus I started out using Kodak Ektachrome reversal film (for colour slides), at 32asa slightly faster than Kodachrome (25asa) and it could be bought without pre-paying for processing, so a slightly cheaper option even after paying for processing once the film was exposed. It could also be processed unmounted and later mounted in plastic slide holders, rather better than the cardboard mounts of Kodachrome. I soon changed to Agfa CT18 film which had a speed of 50asa and so could be used in considerably lower light levels than would have been possible with Kodachrome. It was though a much grainier and softer resolution film than Kodachrome and has not got a great reputation for its archive quality. I have been lucky in that the vast majority of my Agfa slides have stood the test of time, many of them now being well over fifty years old. It also meant the difference of being able <a id="page8"></a>to get a shot in light levels which might not have been possible with Kodachrome – better a slightly grainy shot than no shot at all!</p>
<p class="indent">I never did much in the way of photography at the large London terminal stations (except at Waterloo in later years), preferring to be out taking pictures on the lineside or visiting loco sheds, and during many RCTS rail tours. These often would be for the last run of a particular class of locomotive or the last run over a stretch of line about to be closed, opportunities that had to be made the most of as they would not happen again!</p>
<p class="indent">In order to be able to buy film, I was doing up to three paper rounds a day prior to going to school and also a Saturday morning stint in the local greengrocer’s in Hatch End (where we had moved to from Harrow Weald in 1963), but this meant I had little time to get out and use the film, something of a Catch 22 situation. I usually had to organise someone to stand-in for me at weekends so that trips could be undertaken for photography.</p>
<p class="indent">Family holidays were very much geared up to be spent in areas that still had steam operations, not only on the LMR, but as the years passed so the options became fewer as steam eventually became confined to the north west areas of England from where it was eradicated by August 1968 and before I was out of my teenage years.</p>
<p class="indent">I missed photographing a tremendous amount of steam activity as it was simply not possible to cover the whole country in a few short years on a schoolboy’s budget and with limited time, though my father’s enthusiasm and desire to travel as much as possible helped a great deal. Nevertheless, I was able to record on film much of what was left even as it became something of scramble, decisions having to be made on what to see and what to let go as often things were happening at the same time in different parts of the country.</p>
<p class="indent">Unless I was being ferried around by my father on tours or family trips, my initial photographic efforts depended either on public transport or pushbike but as soon as I turned sixteen, I got a provisional motorbike licence and initially borrowed my sister’s Honda 50 occasionally. This was hardly a racing machine but did mean I could get further afield independently and I graduated to bigger and faster bikes after I passed my driving test. Similarly, as soon as I was seventeen I got a provisional licence for a car and took my test as soon as possible (and passed!) as a provisional driver in a car had to be accompanied by a qualified driver, unlike a motorbike. Thus, for the final eighteen months or so of steam operation I was able to get around rather more, though still with the constraints of being at school and then starting full-time work around October 1967, at the Admiralty Research Laboratories in Teddington.</p>
<p class="indent">My interest in photography inspired me to try to make a career in a related field and to work in the television industry became my goal. My initial overtures to the BBC did not come to fruition as it seemed they wanted a much more technical background in the electronics and optics involved than an ability to compose and make pictures, so I was thwarted to start with. However, in early 1968, new franchises were up for grabs within the ITV companies, one of which, London Weekend Television, was advertising for trainees in sound and camerawork. I was able to apply and went for interview, this time without the technical background; they were much more interested in creative ability. To my joy, I was shortlisted for one of the ten or so vacancies in camerawork but subsequently let down when I received the ‘We’ll keep your details on file’ letter. Unbeknown to me, whilst I was on holiday photographing steam in Northern Ireland in September 1968, a letter from <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g14" id="c14">LWT</a> had arrived at home with a ‘start as soon as you can’ request, which I was fortunate in being able to take up as soon as I returned from holiday, taking a job at Wembley Studios; TV camerawork became my lifelong career and I eventually retired as a freelance around 2010.</p>
<p class="indent">Although this book is entitled ‘London Midland Region’ it is more loosely based on the areas covered by the older ‘Big Four’ London Midland &amp; Scottish Railway, most of its lines becoming the LMR after nationalisation in January 1948. Some lines became parts of other regions, notably the ex-LMS lines in Scotland becoming the Scottish Region of BR, along with former LNER lines in Scotland. Parts of the LMS lines in Yorkshire for instance were later taken over by the Eastern Region (around Sheffield being one example) and the North Eastern Region in the Wakefield and Leeds areas. These areas are included in this book as well as a few original shots from my collection by other photographers taken on Scottish LMS lines – these pictures fill in some photographic gaps of sights I saw in Scotland in 1957 and 1960, before I had a camera.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page9"></a>Not included are lines that became part of the LMR in later years, former Great Central lines for example that became part of the Eastern Region initially and transferred later, also the Cambrian Coast lines that became part of the Western Region to start with and were transferred to the LMR towards the end of steam. These areas will appear in the books dedicated to the Eastern Region and Western Region still to come.</p>
<p class="indent">The vast majority of pictures you will see in this book are my own work, interspersed with a few older shots from my collection, which are captioned as such, and I hope you will find them all enjoyable. The photos start in the London area before heading northwards in a zig-zag sort of pattern and also include some pictures taken along the Bristol to Birmingham route which encompasses the famous ‘Lickey Incline’.</p>
<p class="indent">Comprehensive captions to the photos are included to give loco and/or location backgrounds. These give some build dates, allocations throughout the career of the locos, withdrawal, storage and scrapping information. Please note that these are generalised rather than specific details that have been taken from the usual sources (i.e. not primary sources) such as the <a href="07_Glossary.xhtml#g23" id="c23">RCTS</a> <span class="italic">Railway Observer</span>, SLS Journals and Peter Hands’ booklets on <span class="italic">What Happened to Steam</span>, etc., much of this information compiled into a major database by Peter Kellett, to whom I am very grateful. In recent years, due to a great deal of work done by the HSBT Project (What Really Happened to Steam - <span class="weblink"><span class="underline"><a href="http://www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk">www.whatreallyhappenedtosteam.co.uk</a></span></span>), it has come to light that much of the information used by many authors may be incorrect, apparently due to the activities of one ‘rogue’ reporter. Thus, the information given here should not be taken as gospel, though I have attempted to use the latest available details, but as the HSBT Project is ongoing, further discrepancies between published data and actual events may come to light.</p></body>
</html>
2023-04-26 20:39:24 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-26 20:39:25 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-26 20:39:26 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-26 20:39:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:31 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:39:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:39:33 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-26 20:39:54 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-26 20:39:54 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@26e7691b
