2023-02-04 17:15:58 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-02-04 17:15:58 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-02-04 17:16:36 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-02-04 17:16:36 INFO  - Session id - d6218e377155a1976977e0a178144326fd4738c9
2023-02-04 17:16:36 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-02-04 17:16:36 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:41 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:42 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-02-04 17:16:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-02-04 17:16:47 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:48 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-02-04 17:16:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:52 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:55 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-02-04 17:16:55 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:57 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:16:59 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:17:00 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000303
2023-02-04 17:17:00 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: Sapiens Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: American Axe Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: The Three Little Men in the Forest Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: Wild Problems Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: Blessed Monsters Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: The Mother Tongue Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - bookName: Blacktop Wasteland Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 7
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-02-04 17:17:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000303'
2023-02-04 17:17:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-02-04 17:17:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-02-04 17:17:37 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:17:47 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:17:48 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-02-04 17:18:10 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:18:11 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-02-04 17:18:11 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:18:32 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-02-04 17:18:52 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:18:55 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-02-04 17:18:55 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-02-04 17:18:55 INFO  - randomBookName: Tool
2023-02-04 17:18:55 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-04 17:18:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Tool'
2023-02-04 17:18:59 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-04 17:19:02 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-04 17:19:04 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:19:05 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:19:44 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-04 17:19:46 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:19:47 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:19:48 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-02-04 17:19:49 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:19:50 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-02-04 17:19:50 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-02-04 17:20:36 INFO  - Step 11 - I save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-02-04 17:20:36 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-02-04 17:20:36 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-02-04 17:20:38 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-04 17:20:38 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="Generator" content="Atlantis Word Processor 3.3.3.1" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
<title></title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p0"><span class="t2">Tool</span></p>
<p class="p0">By R.W. Clinger</p>
<p class="p2">“What are you looking at, Sir Lance-A-Pot?” Marcus says from behind me on the floor. He is playing some video game with dragons, castles, and handsome knights in shining armor. “Get away from the window and give your new neighbor some space. Help me slay this three-headed dragon before he has me for lunch.”</p>
<p class="p2">Sometimes I think Marcus lives with me in my two-bedroom saltbox in downtown Pittsburgh because he’s always around. But my bestie doesn’t. He has his own place across the Allegheny River on the North Side, next to Heinz Stadium in the Mexican War Streets District. Maybe he likes my place better than his, although, if ever asked, I will surely disagree with the person regarding this statement, hands down, since his place is vast, three levels, and has an incredible view of downtown.</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, “I haven’t smoked pot in three months. Since Valentine’s Day. When Ricky Starr broke my heart. So you can’t call me that anymore. I’m pot- and boyfriend-free.”</p>
<p class="p2">He clicks and clacks the handheld device with his fingers and thumbs, controlling some time-traveling fool he has named Gridiron. “Starr isn’t boyfriend material. He might look good and stir your private parts, but trust me, he doesn’t have a brain in that delicious body. He’s into cars, muscles, and drugs. You will never have an in-depth conversation about gentrification or climate control in highly-populated cities with him.”</p>
<p class="p2">It’s early May and I stand at my open living room window. I roll my eyes. Sometimes Marcus is too honest with me. Frankly, I’d be perfectly fine if he lied to me once or twice. Guess this will never happen, though. Too bad. I ignore him and check out Tool in the double lot next door. My neighbor’s a dreamboat that stands at six-three with a golden brown tan all year round, wavy cinnamon-brown hair, a chiseled body at 210 pounds with perky nipples, pumped abs, and creamy brown eyes. He’s bent over the engine of a mustard-colored 1976 Nova. He’s in the mouth of a single red-brick garage where he works. His ripped back and tight bottom faces me. The guy sports a pair of tight, greasy jeans, cowboy boots, and no belt. The hood of the Nova is propped open and a blue metal tool box sits on the right side of the engine, open. He grabs a stainless-steel tool out of the box, clicks and clacks it against the engine, hard at work, looking like Hercules, Troy, or Apollo, and causes me to ogle him like a high school boy.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind Tool is the semi-dark garage filled with managed clutter: working fan that Tool sometimes plugs in and uses; paint cans of many colors on one wall; workbench to the right with a heap of stainless-steel tools; hubcaps galore here and there, a radio near the fan. Next to the Nova’s rear bumper is a single man-door to exit from the garage. There’s also a foldable steel chair. Sometimes Tool sits here and enjoys a smoke. He relaxes, taking in life for a minute or two, drifts away…somewhere. He has pretty much taken over the garage from his uncle, who I rarely see these days, enjoying his (<span class="t6">private?)</span> time.</p>
<p class="p2">Over my right shoulder, I lower my voice and ask Marcus, “Do you think the guy next door knows he turns me on when he’s working on the Nova?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Hell no. He’s a good neighbor who minds his own business. Unlike you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I snicker, admiring Tool’s bronze, flexing shoulders and back.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind me, I hear an angry dragon make a horrendous squealing sound, breathe fire, and a man scream on the seventy-two-inch flat-screen. It definitely sounds like Marcus has just lost one of his three lives. “Fuck!” he yells, and pounds the heel of a foot against the hardwood floor.</p>
<p class="p2">The outburst is loud. Tool hears it. He grabs a greasy rag, spins around, lifts his head, and checks me out in the window like I’m Juliet in a high school play. Adorably, he sports grease on his right cheek, and his left pec. I can’t help myself and check out his chest: swollen pecs with perky nipples, unlimited puffed abs, treasure trail beneath his navel. Just a beautiful specimen. Gloriously spectacular.</p>
<p class="p2">Neighbor guy winks at me, smiles, and calls up like Romeo, “Everything okay over there, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">I yell down to him, “Never better! My friend is here and he’s losing at a video game. I think a dragon just toasted his ass!”</p>
<p class="p2">“My skin and muscle are burning off my bones,” Marcus whines, presses a button on the video console, and attempts to save a village called Windysour for the gazillionth time.</p>
<p class="p2">My neighbor nods, keeps his handsome grin and eye contact, goofily laughs, and calls, “Tell him to be careful. We need as many dragon slayers in this world we can get.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’ll do that,” I say, and spin around, feel a twitch of blissful excitement at my center, leave the guy to his dilapidated Nova.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Tool isn’t the guy next door’s birth name. His real name happens to be Michael James Danning. But Marcus and I love to call him Tool because this is how he acts, and what he looks like: big, handsome, sometimes dumb sounding. I know very little about him: recently moved from Phoenix to Pittsburgh to take care of his Uncle Craig Danning, who lives in the house next door and has always kept to himself. Uncle Craig suffers from open-angle glaucoma and he’s slowly going blind. Craig uses Tool as a…tool, of course. Tool’s the same age as me: thirty-four; a year younger than Marcus.</p>
<p class="p2">I’ve done an hour or two of homework on Tool and know that he works as an electrician for the city schools: black wire, red wire, white, red…<span class="t6">zzzzolt! </span>It’s a superior job these days that offers a healthy paycheck, great bennies, and a reliable source of income. Before his Uncle Craig retired the summer before from the local school district, he’d taught English for over thirty years. This is how Tool got his job in maintenance for Pittsburgh Schools. Sometimes it’s not what you do that lands you the elite gigs in life, it’s who you know; Tool is the perfect product of this theory. Without his uncle, he wouldn’t have the job he does.</p>
<p class="p2">More of my homework showed that he’s not a vegetarian, he’s big on ordering-in sushi and pizza, works out almost every day in his uncle’s side yard with a massive eighteen-wheeler tire, next to the garage, and he enjoys action-packed movies; the higher the body count, the better, obviously. I never see him have visitors at his uncle’s place, or socialize with men or women of any age. In fact, he’s somewhat of a homebody, keeping to himself, and keeping his uncle company, rarely straying from Brecker Street. He drives a 2021 navy blue Dodge Charger, and leaves his uncle’s house at around seven-thirty in the morning for work and returns around five in the evening. There’s a battered refrigerator in the rear of the garage with beer inside that he drinks; probably the only negative feature I learn about him, not that I care. Sometimes he drinks Budweiser. Sometimes it’s Miller. I rarely see him with an IPA.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“Motherfucker!” Marcus yells behind me. “The fucking dragon burned me to a crisp again!”</p>
<p class="p2">I hear Marcus toss the remote at the flat-screen: <span class="t6">click, clank, thunk</span>. Tool must hear his outrage because he looks up at me. He pushes a brown wave of hair out of his eyes, grins, and calls up to my living room window, “Sounds like the dragon slayer died again.”</p>
<p class="p2">“‘Fraid so. Once a loser knight, always a loser knight.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Hey!” Marcus yells at me. “I have unlimited lives!”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool hears this and smiles from ear to ear. It melts me. There’s nothing better than when a handsome man smiles, showing off his pearly whites and upturned cheeks. It’s a total turn-on for me; a simple action I’ve always loved, particularly with Tool today.</p>
<p class="p2">As Marcus calms down and refreshes his game, my eye-gig with Tool becomes heated and untamed. Something strange and erotic happens. There’s a rag in Tool’s toolbox which he snags and wipes grease off his hands. To no avail, it doesn’t accomplish much. Tool walks out of the garage to the side yard where he keeps a battered workbench with heavy weights and his giant tire. He finds a coiled hose on the ground next to a narrow bed of daffodils, turns it on, and attempts to clean off one hand and then the other. I’m not sure if this works or not, but he’s certainly diligent about the process. In doing so, facing me, some of the hose water splashes against his chest. Droplets roll down and over his hard pecs and nipples. Clear water drags along his navel and into the lip of his snug jeans. Some of the liquid darkens his mound of denim-covered crotch.</p>
<p class="p2">I’m not sure if he does this water act on purpose, performing for me, teasing me, but it is a tantalizing show and a total turn-on. Things stir below my waistline that maybe shouldn’t. My private parts come alive and vibrate, harden somewhat, and twitch. I whisper, “OhmyGod,” completely caught off guard by his solo performance with the hose and water and his muscles.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind me, Marcus asks, “What’s going on over there?”</p>
<p class="p2">I stammer, “Nothing…nothing at all.”</p>
<p class="p2">Does Tool wink at me? I think so. I’m really not sure. Maybe he does. Maybe he doesn’t. Jesus, I’m so confused. Dizzy. Breathless. Enflamed. Sweating from toes to head. I take the back of one hand and wipe it across my forehead and puff my cheeks, exhale.</p>
<p class="p2">Tool. He eventually turns off the hose and vanishes into his uncle’s house, leaving me excited and hard.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Damn men!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">And damn him!</span></p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Later this week. Twilight. Closer to dark than not. Sticky-hot. Eighty-eight degrees thanks to global warming. I get this bright idea to borrow a tool from Tool. Why not? What do I have to lose? Maybe a screwdriver. Maybe a handsaw. Maybe a wrench. I have yet to decide. Maybe when I’m face to face with the stud I’ll make up my mind and tell him what I need…What every gay man needs from a Tool. Until this moment arises, I…</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t know why I’m attracted to Tool. Is it his bulging muscles, his handsome face, or his mysteriousness? Maybe it’s all the above. I’m sure. How can I not be sure? I’ve never been into tools. Never. Not once in my life. I’m more into thin geeks with glasses and no muscles. Weaklings. Bookish types. Men who read nonfiction. Men with high IQs and are usually weak. I’m drawn to men with bowties, electrified brains, and Harvard scholars with nicely pressed shirts. I like gangly types who understand chemical reactions, fractions, and how the planets sometimes line up among the spacious stars. <span class="t6">Never</span>…never have I been sexually attracted to, or chemically dependent on, or interested in, a tool. Not once.</p>
<p class="p2">Until now.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Now.</span></p>
<p class="p2">But Tool has this magnetism about him that I don’t fully understand. His broad shoulders. His summer suntan. Hair that hangs in his eyes. His beaming eyes. His chiseled chest. The treasure trail above the lip of his jeans. His corded biceps. His firm nipples. The pumped lump of pipe in his jeans between his legs. His thick thighs and…</p>
<p class="p2">He has a pull that causes my balance to slip left, slip right, and go off kilter. The hungry draw prompts me to dress in a short-short pair of running shorts—<span class="t6">I’m a whore, such a bad little whore, a toy that wants to be played with, needed, wanted, desired, kiss me, press against me against something and do what you will with me, press inside me, pull on my dick, pump me with you, let me play with your dick, shame on me, because I’m a dirty dirty dirty dirty little whore</span>—and no shirt this evening. I feel animalistic and brave and daring and step out of my comfort zone and strut over to his uncle’s property.</p>
<p class="p2">I walk down the sidewalk and pass the battered gym set and the large tire that Tool uses to work out. Behind the garage is Craig Danning’s red-brick saltbox; a mirror image of my place. To the left of the house is the garage. I walk to the front of the garage, which I can’t see from my living room window, find myself inside the garage, and discover Tool seated on an old chair, half-hidden behind the Nova, sweaty and bare-chested, nipple-hard and caught off guard by my sudden, unannounced visit.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Oops, my bad. What have I done?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I’ve interrupted you on purpose. Haven’t I? Shame on me.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Shame. Shame. Shame.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I’m such a bad bad bad bad neighbor.</span></p>
<p class="p2">He looks up from his cell phone. “Lance. What brings you over here?”</p>
<p class="p2">Nervously, he fumbles his phone in his hands and immediately turns it off. Before he shuts it off, I see a half-naked dude on its glowing screen: muscular, hard-packed, no shirt, hairy-chested like me, suntanned and golden brown like me, blond like me, blue-eyed like me, Caribbean Sea backdrop behind the sun-dude’s frame, lemon-colored bikini covering hard junk shaped like a banana. Filth. Absolute filth on his phone.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Oh my God, what have I walked in on?</span></p>
<p class="p2">“I need to borrow a tool, Mike. It’s Mike, right? Mike Danning?”</p>
<p class="p2">Lost in the garage’s shadows, does he push away a boner in his shorts? I think so, but I’m not sure. What else would he be pushing away? Nothing that I can imagine.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">What? What? What? What did I walk in on?</span></p>
<p class="p2">Was he getting busy with himself before my arrival? Does the boner boy on his cell phone turn him on? Was he getting ready to jack out a load to the filth on his phone just before my arrival? Probably, by the looks of it. Actually, I have no doubt.</p>
<p class="p2">Someone’s uncomfortable. He clears his throat, shifts left in his chair, shifts right.</p>
<p class="p2">I see right through his gig. I’ve done this move before. Many times. I’m a guy. I’ve had a boner before. <span class="t6">Many times</span>. I know what he’s doing: buying some time to deflate the blood-filled erection between his legs. Getting his shit together. Acting like he wasn’t getting off to a picture of some hot dude on his phone.</p>
<p class="p2">He fakes a cough, which sounds ridiculous. Totally bad acting. B-rated stuff. “Yes…Yes, it’s Mike Danning. What tool do you need?”</p>
<p class="p2">“A wrench.”</p>
<p class="p2">He has his composure together. Finally. He quickly rattles off, “Pipe, open-end, box, socket, ratcheting, crescent…Which kind?”</p>
<p class="p2">Jesus. I’m pretty clueless about wrenches. I have no idea there would be so many to choose from. Maybe I should have done my homework on such a tool before slipping over here? “Ahh…Crescent. Yeah…That should do the trick.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What size?”</p>
<p class="p2">I have no fucking idea and guess, “Four-inch.”</p>
<p class="p2">He stands and I see a shadowy bulge at his center, under his thigh-tight jeans. He’s definitely semi-hard…Chub stuff all the way. Definitely turned on by the blond guy who looks like me on his cell phone…Definitely has a good chance of being queer…Definitely was about to get off and pop a load in the semi-darkness…Definitely was going to blow it all over his plated chest or on the garage’s floor.</p>
<p class="p2">He fetches the wrench from the tool bench to his left, which allows me to check out his bare back and tight waist in the blue-purple-red twilight hues.</p>
<p class="p2">“Damn,” I accidentally whisper, excited by his good looks.</p>
<p class="p2">There’s very little space where he stands, but he finds enough room to spin around and face me. The chub is gone from between his legs. Too bad. He holds the wrench in his right hand, awkwardly between his solid pecs, which makes him look like a tool model and causes me to drool. I want to smirk because he’s a tool holding a tool, but don’t.</p>
<p class="p2">He asks, “Excuse me? Did you say something, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">“No. Nothing.”</p>
<p class="p2">He passes me the wrench, which is heavier than I think it should be. As I take it from him, I scan his frame again from toes to head and calculate his handsomeness as above average: football player-sized, rugged-right, mighty and meaty, tasty all the way, and about as sexy as hell. Again, I want to say <span class="t6">damn</span>, but keep the word to myself, and stay on my best behavior. No need to make a scene. No way.</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks for this,” I say, wave the wrench and nod. “It will come in handy.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Good thing. Glad I can help.”</p>
<p class="p2">I’m just about to make my exit, slipping past the parked Nova, when he says, “Do you want to stick around and have a beer with me?”</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">How about a hot fuck? How about a dick-snack on your chub?</span> I want to ask him these curt questions, but don’t. Instead, I bloom with a smile, feel my insides burn with pleasure, feel a necessary twitch between my legs, and reply, “Sure. No problem. I’d like a beer. Some convo with you would be nice, too. Thanks.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">We do more than have a beer and convo in the back of his uncle’s garage. Because we’re not children. Because we’re adults. Because we are neighbors and we can.</p>
<p class="p2">He bashfully asks, “Do you trust me?”</p>
<p class="p2">“More than the both of us probably realize.”</p>
<p class="p2">He blinks once, twice, three times. “Do you smoke weed?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sometimes.” I sound confident, overly eager.</p>
<p class="p2">“Will you do a hit with me this evening?”</p>
<p class="p2">What I want him to hit is my ass with his solid, erect, pulsing, and veined dick. Fire burns around my heart and navel. The two areas connect, create a line of pure heat. “Sure. Light a stick up.”</p>
<p class="p2">So he lights a joint and we smoke it, pass the stick back and forth. The shit hits me hard since I haven’t smoked in months. Dizziness soaks my skull. My mouth goes dry. My stomach immediately turns. I forgot about these personal side effects, but I don’t care, enjoying my Tool time and his wacky tobacky.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind his uncle’s Nova, sitting across from each other, our knees almost touching, getting high, we chuckle and talk about the neighborhood. Tool might be new to the block, but he knows everything. He fills me in: Mrs. Hinderson is a mean bitch, threatening to kill anyone who crosses her; Paul the Postman is dating Rob Neilson, a fireman, the two like to make movies while they play together with their hoses and upload the flicks on PornHub; Honey Hertzer flaunts her big boobies (among other body parts) to every available guy on the block; she invites men into her flat to lick whipped cream off her breasts and call her Momma, among other naughty sexy tricks and treats; Pastor Bob at 438 Brecker is being questioned about kiddy porn; Angela Dodson just married her long-time lover, Becky Hill after sixty years; and slumlord Paul Godden got arrested for having cameras in all his female tenants’ bathrooms.</p>
<p class="p2">Following another beer, stick of Jane, and neighborhood gossip/chatter, I ask, “How’s your uncle?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks for asking. Right now he’s taking specialized drugs to reduce pressure in his eyes. They’re drops. I believe in the fall he’ll have an operation.”</p>
<p class="p2">Our knees finally touch, grazing. It’s about time. Thank God.</p>
<p class="p2">He locks eyes with me.</p>
<p class="p2">I become nervous and ask, “What kind of operation?”</p>
<p class="p2">“It’s called MIGS. Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery. They are implants, or tools, designed to effectively restore fluid in the eye. It’s like cataract surgery to help reduce eye pressure. It might prevent him from going blind.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re pretty special to take care of him. He probably doesn’t realize what a wonder you are.”</p>
<p class="p2">He chuckles, and admits, “I’m pretty drunk and high right now is what I am.” I don’t know if he realizes it or not, but he reaches forward and touches the exposed, blond hair on my inner, right thigh. He fingers the thigh and asks, “What do you do for a living?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I help design surgical tools. Scalpels. Blades. Retractors. Needle holders. I went to Carnegie Mellon here in Pittsburgh and have a degree in engineering.”</p>
<p class="p2">He pulls his invading hand away from my thigh. Too bad. I rather liked his fingers touching my bare skin. Sometimes a man wants to be touched. “Sounds elite.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Not really. I sit at a computer and look at drawings and numbers all day. My job is to piece the shit together and help make it work. It’s all about diagrams and figures.”</p>
<p class="p2">He tells me he’s an electrician for the city schools, but I already know this, among other intricate details about his life. I want to know something I’m not privy to about his life and ask, “Your Uncle Craig never mentioned you. How are you related to him and where are you from?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s my mother’s brother, and I’m originally from Erie. There’s a small town called Templeton where I grew up. It’s next to Erie. My parents own a log cabin in the woods there. Lots of wildlife and beautiful sunrises. They rent the place out now. When I lived there, it used to leave me feeling blessed to be alive every day, it’s so beautiful. Think of the most extraordinary landscape painting you can dream of. One that literally gives you shivers in your toes and shoulders. That’s what it felt like to me.</p>
<p class="p2">“My parents separated when I turned fifteen. I moved west to Phoenix with my mother. My father went to Palm Beach. My mom has a sister who lives right down the street from her. I rent a flat near the university.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So you’re not sticking around here in the city for long, are you? You’ll help your uncle through his surgery and you’ll head west again? The city isn’t for you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Depends what I could stick to while I’m here, and if it’s worth staying or not. The city isn’t a bad place to live. I can get used to it.” His comments don’t come across as flirtatious, ambiguous, or as sexual innuendos. I’m really not sure what he’s saying, but I’m open for wherever our conversation goes, or whatever they do or don’t hint to, mostly because I’m high and because the cheap beer tastes good.</p>
<p class="p2">I want to ask him if he’s into dudes instead of ladies, but I think I already know the answer to my question because his fingers discover my bare thigh again, and travel northward bound, to my private parts. Instead, I ask him, “This Nova’s been sitting here for the last ten years. Do you think you’ll get it running?”</p>
<p class="p2">“With the right tools I will.” He sounds confident. “It’s all about the tools, Lance. In every situation. At all times.” His hand climbs higher and higher up my thigh, teasing me, turning me on, and causing a number of emotions to turn and twist in me: confusion, hardness, trepidation, excitement, bedazzlement, overzealousness.</p>
<p class="p2">I lose air, becoming breathless and light-headed. I’m almost incapable of saying, “Marcus and I know nothing about cars.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Is Marcus the dragon slayer?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He is.”</p>
<p class="p2">He…He caresses my thigh. One stroke. Two strokes. Three strokes. “You two boyfriends or do you just fuck around with each other?”</p>
<p class="p2">“No. No. No.” My voice cracks. “Never. We’re just friends. He’d drive me crazy if we were boyfriends. And we never fuck around. No handjobs or anything like that. I like a guy who’s more balanced. Dragon slayers are off limits. Sometimes he’s off the charts when it comes to keeping his composure together. He’s totally not my type of guy.” I basically out myself with these statements, but whatever. Again, it’s the pot and beer. Oh well. <span class="t6">He’s the one touching my thigh and making me hard.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“Where is he at tonight? He’s usually at your house.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I know he’s there a lot, but he has his own place. Marcus is on business in Silicon Valley the next few days. He makes computer chips for video games.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Gotcha,” he says. “It all makes sense now. He’s a computer chip slayer then.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh.</p>
<p class="p2">He laughs.</p>
<p class="p2">Unfortunately he slides his hand away from my personal parts. Too bad. Damn.</p>
<p class="p2">The both of us become somewhat loaded on beer and we continue to talk for the next two hours. Time passes with such ease; I enjoy myself without overthinking. I learn so much about the man, I can’t even digest it all. A friendship blooms easily between us, without conditions. He flatters me because of his openness. I relish the facts I learn about him. Lists of likes and dislikes.</p>
<p class="p2">His likes: the color yellow; South Dakota (he’s visited there twice); French, although he speaks very little of the language; Batman over Superman; horror novels by Peter Straub; game shows; cowboys; Matchbox 20 (he’s seen the band in concert three times); kittens over puppies; the movie <span class="t6">The Shape of Water</span>; algebra; beer over cocktails; football over baseball.</p>
<p class="p2">His dislikes: cell phones and technology; pollution; Republicans; anything related to racism and discrimination of any sort; how time unravels so quickly and is unstoppable; the destruction of human rights; Mother Nature’s fury; innocent prisoners; humans traveling in space; clowns; Botox; skinny pool boys; unsharpened knives.</p>
<p class="p2">Close to midnight, our evening eventually comes to an end. The moon sends shards of harmless and magical silver-white rays of light into the garage. I tell him, “I have to work in the morning.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Me too.”</p>
<p class="p2">I stand.</p>
<p class="p2">He stands. “I’ll walk you home.” A short and abrupt laugh escapes him that sounds like a boy’s. “Or at least to the end of the yard.”</p>
<p class="p2">Such a gentleman. I don’t object.</p>
<p class="p2">We squeeze through the narrow space between the Nova and the workbench. Near the end of the garage, facing my living room and the window from where I watch him, I feel one of his palms against my hip. He gently touches my ribs, abs, and chest hair. I don’t move away from his caress. Never. Not tonight. Not anytime soon.</p>
<p class="p2">Nervous, I mutter, “The moon is beautiful tonight. It has so many emotions in its face.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So human-like. Similar to us on many levels.” He adds, “Be careful. It’s dangerous in here. If you fall, you’ll slice your head open, or something. I don’t want that to happen. No emergencies tonight. Okay?”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t pull away from his touch. Nor do I act surprised by it. In fact, it’s pleasurable and—I won’t lie to myself, never, at least not under tonight’s crisp moonlight, no way—I want him to seduce me here in the grunge and grime of his uncle’s garage, and take advantage of my skin, any way he wants to. Against the Nova. Over the workbench. Standing up. On one of the chairs where we sat and discussed our lives. Over a chair. Because I desire him. Because Sir-Lance-A-Pot has needs and desires. Because I want him inside me. All of him. The two of us pressed as one. Some way. Somehow.</p>
<p class="p2">Unfortunately he drops his hand from my hip as we exit the small brick building and silver moonlight cascades down and over our partially naked bodies. At the edge of the two properties—his back facing the front of the Nova, and my back facing my living room window—we face each other. Our chests almost touch, as well our crotches. Thick heat rises between us, smolders. I feel as if I’m going to fall to the pre-summertime grass. My stomach jolts. I honestly think he’s going to take me in his arms and hug me, but he doesn’t. Instead, he simply says, “See you around.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Around,” I reply, barely capable of speaking because I am drunk, dizzy, horny, and lost among the folds of night.</p>
<p class="p2">The moment ends as I head to the front of my saltbox, nervously trot into the quiet and dark house, and begin to think for maybe the first time: He might not just be a tool after all. There’s more to him. Someone I can like. For me.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Two interesting things happen when I become settled inside my saltbox this late evening:</p>
<p class="p2">One: I realize I’d forgotten the wrench Tool lent me. What was I thinking? Why did I do that? Did I have too much to drink? Was my head screwed on too loosely?</p>
<p class="p2">And two: I hear grunts and growls echo from the rear of the garage. I take an extended gander from my living room window, spying on him.</p>
<p class="p2">What I witness just about blows my world apart. <span class="t6">Boom!</span> Tool sits in one of the chairs behind the Nova; I can see a sliver of his silhouette in the glow of his cell phone’s light. His jeans are bunched around to his Nike shoes. A shadowy erection stands upright between his legs: veined, pulsing. The man’s nipples and pecs are about as hard as steel. He spreads his legs ever so slightly and works the staff between his thighs up and down, up and down, up and down with both palms. I hear the familiar grunts and growls escape his mouth, throat, and the garage, and watch him thrust his hips upwards, into his fist, one pummel after the next, after the next, after the next. He arches his back, murmurs something I can’t make out, gurgles, gargles, mumbles, and continues to play with himself, thrust his hips upwards, and upwards, heavily pants and…</p>
<p class="p2">An animalistic growl echoes in the night and throughout the neighborhood—it’s deviant, guttural, and monstrous, yet sexy at the same time—as a glowing arc of thick ejaculate spirals out of his sweat-slick post and splatters against the man’s chest and chin. The goop clings and hangs on his glossy, perspiration-covered skin until he wipes it away with fingers, post-sexed, exhausted, and he wilts in the steel chair; the sexy and naked neighbor spent from jacking off.</p>
<p class="p2">Both of us heavily perspire. Both of us are exhausted. Both of us are deflated.</p>
<p class="p2">I feel thick lust within the summertime heat between my legs; a burst of sexual delight—pure stickiness.</p>
<p class="p2">The night wears on.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">The next morning, before I rush off to work, before my day starts and I turn moody because of the monotony of the world, I find the crescent wrench on my front stoop. The tool causes my morning frown to turn upside down. There’s a piece of notebook paper tied to its handle with rawhide. The paper reads: <span class="t6">left this behind</span>. I bring the wrench and note inside and place both on one of the end tables next to my sofa and forget about them. Tool is more important than the wrench, right? Right.</p>
<p class="p2">As I drive my vintage Rabbit to Spectrum Tools on the other side of town, I wonder if the night before was nothing more than my mind playing tricks on me: intimate, one-on-one time spent with Tool; our in-depth conversations about each other’s lives, becoming friends; learning about each other; hints of flirting; the beer drinking and pot smoking; the somewhat naked doppelganger of me on his cell phone; the way he touched my inner thigh (more than once) with his fingertips, maybe turned on by me, maybe not; the way he touched my hip when I was leaving the garage. It all had to be a head game of sorts, teasing at its best; something I only dreamed of, wishing for, wanting from him; a deep desire. None of it was reality, of course. Not a minute. Not a second. All of it was a dreamy state of exhaustion because of the heat and the humidity that mixed and caused a hallucinogenic state.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">The evening was too hot.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I was drugged.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">My mind had played tricks on me.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">It had to be that way.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Had to be.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“I can’t think of any other way it could have been,” I say to myself in the Rabbit, driving…driving…driving. “No way. No way at all.”</p>
<p class="p2">Of course.</p>
<p class="p2">How ludicrous of me to think something different.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Trouble when I get back to Brecker Street after work and settle in. When Marcus is out of town, I follow a routine after my work day: shower, change into some comfortable clothes, eat a salad, and cook a portion of protein on the grill for dinner, have a cocktail after dinner, and watch something on Netflix or Hulu. Lately I’ve been indulging a series on Hulu called <span class="t6">A Teacher</span> and absolutely love it. I’ve told Marcus about it, but he’s far too busy playing video games in his spare time.</p>
<p class="p2">Anyway, I do my deed and shower, dress in a pair of shorts and nothing else because Mother Nature is still persisting with her heat wave. I cook dinner, eat, and enjoy my chosen cocktail, a single Kamikaze, which goes down smoothly. I’m just about to find pleasure in a few episodes of my chosen series when the front door of my saltbox bursts open and a pissed off Ricky Starr, my ex-boyfriend, shows up out of the blue.</p>
<p class="p2">The door slams closed behind him. Starr looks good in a pair of snug shorts, sandals, and nothing more. Always did. Probably always will. The black hair on his chest is covered in a thick evening sweat, and his robust muscles look fully pumped with testosterone. Unfortunately, he’s high on something from the city streets; just one of the many reasons why I dumped him three months before. I’m thinking it must be one of the newest sniff-drugs: Raw, Bent, or Calypso. Who knows? He’s wired, on fire, and his eyes are about as open as the three major tunnels in the city. Plus, his lips are chapped, dried, and cracked; a sure sign he’s been hooked on the <span class="t6">sniff</span> for a few weeks, even months.</p>
<p class="p2">“No. No. No.” I shake my head and freeze on the sofa. My gut turns. “Starr, what are you doing here?” I say, shocked to see him. I don’t want to see him. Never. Ever. Again.</p>
<p class="p2">He rushes toward me, jumps on me, straddles me like a bull, presses me into the sofa with his massive muscles and weight, and gives me a hard slap to my left cheek, and I taste blood in my mouth. He repositions himself, spreads my legs open, and slaps my bare pecs with one of his palms. He laughs, “I came to get busy with you, motherfucker. A man needs some fun. A man needs to slip his dick into things.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No! No! No!” I try to push him off and away from me, but he’s large, almost twice my size. Too meaty. Too massive and muscular. The man is <span class="t6">huge</span>. The guy is rugby- or American football-large. Not fat. Just all muscle. “This isn’t happening! Get off me! You’re hurting me!”</p>
<p class="p2">And this…this is the horrible life I remember with him: the drugs and alcohol and physical abuse and his problems, addictions, pain and how I suffered with him and became miserable and unhappy and someone I didn’t want to be. I freed myself from him. I flew away. I became myself and whole again. I’m a butterfly now: changed and distant from him. Floating away from him. No longer trapped.</p>
<p class="p2">“No…No…No,” I grumble, and push him away with all my might. Tears grow in the corners of my eyes. My heart thuds and my brain swells to twice its size as fear disables every thought.</p>
<p class="p2">His lips meet my neck and one of his hands roll against my dick and balls, which doesn’t turn me on. Not in the slightest. When he comes off for air, he laughs and says, “Come on. What about for old time’s sake? Don’t you want to be a couple with me again? Let me get inside you. I want to bury your face in the sofa and fuck you. You used to like that. No. Wrong. You used to <span class="t6">love</span> that. You couldn’t get enough of my dick inside you. What do you say?”</p>
<p class="p2">“There is no old time’s sake with you. Get! Off! Me! Now!”</p>
<p class="p2">He doesn’t listen. He dry humps my middle, hard against me, attempts to pull my shorts down at the same time, and goes at my neck as if he’s a vampire, sucking at its corded veins.</p>
<p class="p2">I try to push him away with my fists. “Off, Starr!…This isn’t happening!…Get off me!…Now!”</p>
<p class="p2">And this, ladies and gentleman, is why I cannot fall in love with Ricky Starr and live happily ever after with him. This is why we are no longer coupled. This is why I think: <span class="t6">Where is Marcus when I need him? He usually protects me with his presence. Doesn’t Marcus keep the fire-breathing dragons away from my life? Isn’t he a knight in shining armor of sorts? Why can’t he be here this evening and defend and protect me? Isn’t he always here at my place?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2">Just as I’m about to punch Starr in the nuts to defend myself and send him flying off me, the front door busts open—honestly, it almost flies off its hinges and snaps in two—and Tool comes to my rescue. He crosses the room with superhuman speed like Flash, pulls Starr off me, and tosses the man to the living room floor.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Bump!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Thud!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Crack!</span></p>
<p class="p2">Opportunity knocks. Starr conks his head off the leg of an end table. The wrench I borrow from Tool tumbles off the table and falls. It hits Starr in the left temple. I’m sure he sees stars, birds, planets, go-go dancers, and whatnots. He mumbles something, holds his head. The guy can barely stand, but he does. And he finds the strength to crawl to my front door, attempts his exit, and prattles things over his right shoulder like: “Who’s Superman?…Where’d Joe Strong come from?…What happened?…I only wanted to get inside your asshole like old times, Lance. You were always a prude. A fucking prude. Jesus Christ, what’s your problem?”</p>
<p class="p2">“You okay?” Tool leans over me and grazes my mouth and chin with three fingertips.</p>
<p class="p2">Tool’s touch feels amazing. Like cherry pie sweetness on one’s tongue. Like knee-reaching daisies against your bare legs in a summertime field. The golden sunshine after the first day of a long and cold winter. I nod, try to smile, honestly can’t, but find the strength to whisper, “I’m good.”</p>
<p class="p2">Splayed on the floor, Starr yells by the front door, “Fuck you both!”</p>
<p class="p2">“Perfect. I’m glad you’re good,” Tool says. He rubs my lips with a stray fingertip, two fingertips. The smile he shares with me warms my soul and aligns the planets. It’s a smile that can calm the seas and balance the Earth’s ecosystem. “Don’t move. I’ll be back in a second.”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool crosses the living room and grabs my ex by his arms, lifts him off the floor, and drags him outside into the early evening. I’m sure he threatens Starr, tells him to stay away from me, never to “get inside me again,” and informs him to drive away from Brecker Street as quickly as he arrived before the cops are called. Or something similar. Case closed.</p>
<p class="p2">And off Starr goes, returning to whatever sewer he crawled out of. Gone. For. Good.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Eventually Tool comes back into the house, steps up to me, stares down at me, unintentionally flexes his muscles for me, proves that he’s all man, and asks, “Are you sure you’re okay, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Better now. Thanks for saving me. The guy is dangerous. Always was.”</p>
<p class="p2">“An ex of yours?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes. Ricky Starr. He uses too many drugs. He’s high, and horrible. This is how he was when we were a couple for five months.”</p>
<p class="p2">He huffs above me, which is about as sexy as my mind can process, and he confesses, “I was working on the Nova and heard you yelling. I realized you were in trouble. Then I came running. You’re safe now. No need to worry.” He rubs my cheek with fingertips and grazes its blond, post-five-o’clock scruff. “I thought he was going to kill you when I burst inside.”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s violent when he’s high. Starr definitely has a few problems. He needs to get help. Unfortunately, he hasn’t found it yet. I can’t tell you how many times he’s been to rehab and special groups to get him on the right track. He’s an addict though, and he doesn’t want to help himself.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No man needs to be treated the way he was treating you. Your living room window is open. I heard what was happening. Plain as day. The guy was abusive. I wasn’t about to allow him to do that to you a second longer.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks again,” I tell him. “I’m glad you were looking out for me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What are friends for? I’m sorry you had to go through that.” He slightly bends over and brushes blond hair out of my eyes; always so touchy-feely, not that I mind. I feel safe with him, protected, and a warmness floods through me. I’ve never felt this way with any other man. Not once. There’s something about Tool that I find noble and charming, like he’s from Camelot, or someone with special powers.</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, “Starr’s overdosed three times. Truth said, he’s failing himself. The system’s tried to help him out the best way it can. Unfortunately, I’ve been caught in his radar a few times like this evening. I was glad you were around to help me. God only knows what he would have done if you weren’t next door and my living room window wasn’t open. He can throw a nasty punch and get what he wants. I’ve been on the other side of his anger numerous times.”</p>
<p class="p2">He gently pulls me up and off the sofa as if I’m a bag of feathers or powdered sugar. Our chests cling and glide together. Our mouths almost meet, aligning. Our hidden cocks touch, but only by accident. None of these actions stop the flighty warmth of bumblebees that zoom and twirl within my chest. He admits, “I promise to help when I can. We’re friends now.”</p>
<p class="p2">I think he’s going to kiss me and my lips semi-part, but he doesn’t. Instead, he breathes on my face (warm, smooth, soft, sweet), stares at me and takes in every wrinkle, curve, pimple, and dent on my face. How disappointing that the kiss doesn’t happen. The kiss should happen. Damn. What a loss. A total upset. But I still enjoy being next to him, touching him.</p>
<p class="p2">I smell pizza on his breath: cheese, pepperoni, sausage, onion, peppers. He smells delicious, completely edible. One of his hands is snug against the back of my head. His other hand is placed along the curve of my spine. I find it comfortable here. It’s like we’re dancing, but we’re not. Yet something keeps us entwined, meshed together. I wonder…I wonder if this is how he makes love to a man.</p>
<p class="p2">He smiles and adds, “I’m just glad you’re okay. I really wasn’t sure what was going on over here. I just sensed danger.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And you went into hero mode, which I appreciate. I’m better now…Much better. So thanks.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It makes me happy if you want to know the truth. I don’t want bad things to happen to you, Lance. I don’t mind keeping tabs on you.” These comments might come across as creepy to some, but they don’t to me. I’m cool with what he says, calm, and rather relish his attention.</p>
<p class="p2">Before I can add something to the conversation, possibly making a fool of myself, time stops. We simply become lost in each other’s eyes and hypnotized by the moment in my living room. Connected by some rudimentary force that maybe neither of us understands. If he’s going to kiss me, it should probably happen now, by free will, an understanding devised by our hearts, before it’s too late, and before time begins again. There’s no reason to wait a second longer. Stillness can sometimes never be found again, remain forever misplaced.</p>
<p class="p2">He comes to, blinks a few times, and stammers, “I…I have pizza and beer at the garage. Do you want to come over and kill some with me? Take a load off with me. We can talk about Starr and other things. What do you say? Be a bro with me and relax. Chill.”</p>
<p class="p2">I feel his palm and fingers on my back as is it travels to the base of my spine. It lingers there, stops above my rump, and it causes the shivers of warm heat to rise to the perspiration-covered rear of my neck. I don’t realize at this time—later it comes to me, when I think over this confused and bubbly moment, rehashing this connection—but our bare pecs touch, as well as our stomachs and somewhat hard cocks. There is very little, if any, space between our torsos. Our bodies are temporarily sealed together, amalgamated. I literally shudder against him, share a full-fledged smile, feel heat melt my skin away, boil between my legs, feel as if my pecs will pop, and reply, “I’d like that. Lead me astray.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“It was a long five months with Ricky,” I tell Tool, sitting in the chair across from him at the rear of his uncle’s dingy garage. Most of the pizza and six-pack of an IPA are gone. “I shouldn’t have gotten involved with him, but he seduced me. The guy knows how to talk his men into bed, a shower, or against a wall. He’s very smooth when he’s not high. A total charmer, and I fell for his sexual gig.”</p>
<p class="p2">“When did you learn he was doing drugs?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Right from the start. I found them in his kitchen. He had a flat in South Side, near the Ohio River. I think he purposely left them out for me to find, thinking I would use them. I’ve never been one to use drugs, except for pot.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Pills?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Pills. Powder. Liquids. Whatever he could find. That’s what he used, and still does.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Shit. He has it bad.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Always does. Always will. Starr will probably die using drugs. It’s an unfortunate truth.”</p>
<p class="p2">“How many times did he rough you up?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Twice. Seven times. A dozen or more. I can’t even give you a number. Usually he was high all the time and passed out somewhere. Most of the time he wasn’t even home, hooked on something with his friends, lost in the city somewhere. I didn’t know where he was.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sounds damaging for the both of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It was terrifying some days. He had the tools to get clean and chose not to use them. The addict in him was, and is today, too strong. So I got out. I couldn’t have his problem become my problem, because I realized I couldn’t help him. Starr didn’t want to help himself, so how could I help him?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Makes sense. A lot of friends and lovers to addicts go through the same thing. Relationships fall apart all the time.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’m just glad it’s over with. This evening was a rare event. I’m sure it will happen again, but not for a long time. I’m not worried about it, to tell you the truth. Honestly, Starr will probably overdose and kill himself one of these days. You and I can’t stop him from doing that. He’s a train on a mission to derail. Some addicts are like this and…”</p>
<p class="p2">We talk for the next few hours, close to midnight. Maybe even longer. We drink all the beer and eat all the pizza. And he plays with my leg and lightly flirts with me. We don’t kiss. We don’t hug. But we do talk a lot, and laugh. And our friendship grows, matching my attraction to him.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">I get this crazy idea, half out of my mind. As May progresses I get online and study tools. I make a list and start to borrow a variety of tools from the stud next door just to see and spend more time with him. Of course, I <span class="t6">don’t</span> need the tools. Why would I? I’m not Jesus and intend to build things. I’m not part of the public works for the city.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the flat-headed screwdriver.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the sixteen-ounce Fiberglass professional rip hammer.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the curved, jaw locking set of pliers.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the channel locks.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the roll of silver duct tape.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the mini-pick and hook set.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the C-clamp.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the three-way tacker staple gun.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the eight-inch magnetic torpedo level angle finder.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the seven-inch long wood chisel set with its PVC handle.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the mini-folding lock-back utility knife.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the twelve-inch hacksaw.</p>
<p class="p2">And the list goes on and on of the tools I borrow from Tool.</p>
<p class="p2">It’s so nice to see him. Always. Always.</p>
<p class="p2">As for the tools…They’re in a mismanaged pile on the living room floor next to the sofa. Told you I don’t need them.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus plays his dragon and knight video game again and goes on a rant. He says over his right shoulder at me, “You’re falling for Tool, Lance. I’m telling you as your closest friend…Do. Not. Fall. For. Him. He’ll hurt you. Every guy has hurt you. You’re not meant to fall for a man. Never. At least not in this lifetime. And certainly not for Tool. Don’t follow your heart, and mind, and cock. Run. Run as fast as you can. Stop the bullshit now. Just stop it regarding Tool. Give all the tools back. Summer is going to end. His uncle is going to have the operation and he will be able to see again. And before you know it, Tool will be back in Phoenix and his flat again. That’s going to leave you with a hard dick and a broken heart. So listen to me. Drop him.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I can’t help what’s happening. My heart wants what it wants.”</p>
<p class="p2">I study more tools on my phone to borrow: a stainless-steel putty knife, an oil-free pancake air compressor, a three-inch magnetic bit holder, a six-inch stainless-steel taping knife, a five-in-one painter’s tool, a 1500-watt temperature heat gun, a one-inch hex chisel set for a demolition hammer.</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus controls a character who attempts to slay a dragon my flat-screen. He says to me, “You’re making the biggest mistake of your life. A fatal judgment on your part. Death by your dick-craving. Listen to me and get out while you can.”</p>
<p class="p2">I snip at him, “Says the man who hasn’t had a long-term relationship since 1999.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I don’t want a long-term relationship anytime soon. I’m a man-hopper. I like to go from one dick to the next. There’s no reason to settle down yet. I’ve got a lot of singlehood left in me. I travel too much to settle down. I work too hard. Plus, I play too many video games to keep up a conversation with a man. Call me selfish, but at least I know who I am and what I want.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re a whore, Marcus. You’re a dick-whore. You sleep with three men when you leave town. I know this because you tell me.”</p>
<p class="p2">I hear a fire-breathing dragon roar, and his character, Gridiron, scream on my flat-screen. “Fuck!” Marcus yells as he dies. He tosses the remote to the floor. “This dragon’s a fucking dick.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh.</p>
<p class="p2">He pouts. “I like being a whore. What can I say? I like dick.” He shrugs.</p>
<p class="p2">“And I like the tool next door.”</p>
<p class="p2">It’s a typical bestie time with Marcus. No surprise.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">It’s the end of May, after five in the evening. It feels like the sun accosts Earth, gobbling it up, specifically Pittsburgh. I’m talking dripping-wet hot. It’s maybe why Tool shows up in a pair of skimpy running shorts that look like he dug them out of a chest from 1988: red-and-white striped with curved bottoms. The gym shorts leave nothing to my imagination, outlining his package. Sweat decorates his shoulders, pecs, and tight navel. The droplets hang on his pert nipples. A smile lingers on his handsome face. He says, “I have cold beer and pizza in the garage. Do you want to join me?”</p>
<p class="p2">I think he sees the vast pile of tools over my left shoulder on the floor, but he doesn’t. Maybe he’s checking out my blond-furry chest, its hard nipples, and drops his stare to my chiseled thighs. I’m not sure, but hope so. “That’s nice of you. Anything I can bring?”</p>
<p class="p2">“A lighter or matches for a smoke.” He reaches forward and drags two fingertips around my navel, chuckles. “But only if you want to smoke.”</p>
<p class="p2">I tell myself that he adds: <span class="t6">Or other things, Lance. I’m up for whatever you’re up for, guy.</span></p>
<p class="p2">He winks at me. I’m honestly not sure what the wink means, but I’m not a fool and know it’s personal and maybe he wants to kiss me or touch my thigh again.</p>
<p class="p2">“Sure…Yeah. I’ll bring a lighter,” I tell him. I giggle like a high school kid who has one thing on his mind: getting easy with the star quarterback. Wrestling tongues with him. Just as he probably wants to wrestle tongues with me. Or something more.</p>
<p class="p2">Shame on me.</p>
<p class="p2">And shame on him.</p>
<p class="p2">We’re such bad influences on each other.</p>
<p class="p2">I stand dumbfounded in my living room and think: Why does he make me act like I’m eighteen instead of thirty-four? What kind of game are we playing? Why are we behaving immaturely? Tactics like these are for kids. We’re adults. We honestly don’t have time for this bullshit. We’re men. <span class="t6">Men</span>.</p>
<p class="p2">“See you in a few,” he says, and off he goes.</p>
<p class="p2">I can’t help myself and watch his tight back and shoulders. I study his ass twitch left and right in the clinging shorts. Damn, I’m such a perv. And damn, I want him. For maybe all the wrong reasons: selfishly and sexually.</p>
<p class="p2">I’m a dick-whore like Marcus. Yes, I am. We’re twins.</p>
<p class="p2">No. Maybe not. I might have more feelings for the garage guy next door than just an evening fuck. I feel connected to him, and I’m interested in everything he has to say. I can listen to him for hours. I feel as if I’m more than friends with him, whether he knows this or not. I’m hooked on him, obsessed, challenged by him, desiring him, infatuated with the man. We decide on who we want to be with. Tool is my pick. All that I want. My simple pleasure. Mine.</p>
<p class="p2">I just might like him a little too much.</p>
<p class="p2">A reachable liking.</p>
<p class="p2">Good for me.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">In the rear of his garage we drink beer, eat pizza, and smoke sticks of Mary with the best of them. I become twenty again, or younger. Hot, horny, and buzzed, we giggle like young men. Does Tool see the semi-boner between my legs as I sit across from him as we talk for the next two hours about his life in Phoenix: the dry desert, cacti, its Native American culture, the Salt River Valley, and pioneer villages. Does he realize how turned on I am by him? Does he know I can listen to him for hours, immersed in his every word, hypnotized by him, whatever he tells me, lost in his voice and tone?</p>
<p class="p2">We talk about other things: my boring job; his obsession with football; how I’ve been to Europe three times and loved it; how he used to be an amateur wrestler; my lack of creativity; his ambition to lift weights more and beef up his arms; my new liking with Lizzo’s music; his liking for Tom Hardy’s body, minus the tattoos. And our conversation continues and continues and continues until…</p>
<p class="p2">“Hello?…Hello?” a female calls outside the garage. The woman sounds familiar, but I can’t put a face to her, or recognize the glimpse of her curvy frame. I’ve heard her voice before but I just can’t place her. “Mike, are you in there?” She taps on part of the Nova’s body: knuckles meet metal three times. <span class="t6">Tap. Tap. Tap.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“Mike? Sweetie, are you hiding from me? Are you in there, sweetie?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’m back here, Honey!” Tool calls out.</p>
<p class="p2">Honey Hertzer. Of course this is who visits. Our neighbor who lives across the street from the pedophile, Pastor Bob. She finds her way into the garage. There’s very limited light inside the garage and Honey becomes a tall, big-boobed shadow in a pair of stilettos as she closes in on us. She has her blonde hair pulled up into pigtails and she sports Daisy Dukes and a snug, light-colored half-tank, which shows off her flat tummy. A diamond shines in her navel. She giggles, “There are probably a million little spiders that will bite me in here. I’m a damsel in distress. How ghastly. How dreadful. A big, muscle-man like you, Mike, needs to protect me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’ll be fine, Honey. Come on back.”</p>
<p class="p2">Once she reaches our twosome, she leans over, nuzzles her hefty breasts in Tool’s face, and kisses the top of his head. “Sweetie, how are you? I haven’t seen you in the last few days. Tell me everything is fine.” When she pulls her girlie parts away from his face, she applies a kiss to his left cheek, then his right cheek. She’s very handsy, just like Tool. She finds one of his massive pecs with a hand and gives it a firm squeeze. “So well-built. So meaty. I could just eat and eat and eat you up. Yum and yummy. The things I want to do to you, sweetie.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I was just having a pizza and beer with my neighbor. You know Lance Baye, right?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Of course. Of course.” She waves a hand at me, disregarding my presence, ignoring me. Lack of My Presence 101 in action. “We’ve met a few times. The homosexual on the block.” She giggles rather rudely, her tone losing excitement. “Every city street has one. Unlike you, Mike, he does nothing for me. I’ve never been into queens. Their beef just doesn’t mix well with my body parts.”</p>
<p class="p2">She makes a <span class="t6">tee-hee</span> sound that causes me to roll my eyes. I’m flabbergasted and shake my head. I swallow a hostile reply. Tool makes wide eye contact with me. Maybe he’s just as confused and irritated by her as I am. Or maybe he’s surprised by her insipid chatter; I’m not sure. He doesn’t stay quiet, though, and tells her, “Honey, that wasn’t very nice to say about Lance.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What?” she says. “The truth? He likes dick. He can’t do anything for me, sweetie. We know that.” She rolls her busy hand down the center of his chest, between his legs, and grabs the mound of his beef, provides it with a squeeze, two squeezes, and three squeezes. “Oh my. You are quite the man. Such bounty I’ve found. What a meat-man you are. Honey likes. Yum. Yummy. And yummer.”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool jumps where he sits, and laughs.</p>
<p class="p2">She says, “It’s time to make you hard and happy, sweetie. Honey wants a taste of your ruggedness. Honey needs you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I’ve seen and heard enough. It’s time to leave. There is no reason for me to stick around a second longer. I get what’s going on between the two of them. <span class="t6">Wink. Wink. </span>Boy meets girl. Big-boobed girl hits on tool-boy. Girl does boy. I get it. I’m not a fool. I’ve seen it a million times before. Who hasn’t? It’s in every relationship handbook between men and women that’s ever been written.</p>
<p class="p2">Politely, I tell them both, “I really have to go. Goodbye,” and I slip away.</p>
<p class="p2">Honey makes a <span class="t6">tsk</span> sound.</p>
<p class="p2">“Lance…Wait,” Tool calls out to me.</p>
<p class="p2">“Oh, sweetie, let the fag go. He has nothing to offer us. Let him go find a dick somewhere. You have me. And I have you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I look over my shoulder at these comments. I honestly don’t want to see what I do: Honey on Tool’s lap. She has her half-tank pulled up and her breasts are exposed, nipple-hard. She attempts to cover Tool’s face with her breasts and says, “Honey wants you to properly lick these. Have at them.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">On my short walk home I call myself a stupid fool under my breath. Frustrated, touched by the moonlight, I add, “You never had a chance with Tool. Never. Of course you’re a stupid fool, Sire-Lance-A-Pot. Marcus was right.”</p>
<p class="p2">My bestie’s words surface inside my head: <span class="t6">Do. Not. Fall. For. Him. He’ll hurt you. Every guy has hurt you. You’re not meant to fall for a guy. Never. At least not in this lifetime. Don’t follow your heart, and mind, and cock. Run. Run as fast as you can. Stop the bullshit now. Just stop it.</span></p>
<p class="p2">Reality is sometimes easier to understand in its cruel beauty. I know this first-hand now. I feel it. The sting is tough to handle. The burning saliva it offers is steaming hot. Undeniable pain. Grief of sorts hits me. Death at my center. Breathlessness in my lungs. I no longer feel alive.</p>
<p class="p2">Once at home I close all the windows, pull all the blinds, and block out the city and the rest of the world, particularly what’s happening next door. I put on the air conditioner for the first time this season and watch TV until I fall asleep on the sofa. I don’t dream of Tool or Honey or a vintage Nova that needs repairs. I don’t think about tools or pizza or beer. I don’t imagine men smoking pot together or fingertips touching a thigh. Sleep finds me. Hard and long sleep. I’m alone. My days from now on will always be like this. Always.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">It’s the next day. Saturday, May 29. Memorial Day weekend. I have a three-day weekend off from work. Rain beats down from the gray heavens and the day becomes soggy. Not that I mind, since I’ve always loved the rain. Besides, every man needs some soggy in his life, right? Not a lot, just some. I spend the morning reading the latest Robert Riley mystery called <span class="t6">Mischief Challenged</span> when the front doorbell rings on my quiet saltbox. Still seated, I set the hardback aside and look up, across the room. Tool stands at the screen door in too many clothes: snug jeans that outline his manly package, a wet T-shirt is like plastic wrap on his chest, and Adidas running shoes.</p>
<p class="p2">He smiles.</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t, still affected from the night before in his uncle’s garage and the reality that he has a <span class="t6">thing</span> going on with Honey Hertzer. I’m not exactly what their relationship entails, but I know I don’t like it, and don’t want to be in the mix of it. I just know I don’t trust Honey. So I’d rather break off whatever I have with Tool and slide back into my still life without him. Case closed. Or in this case: close the living door and window, pull the blind down on the window, and forget that he exists.</p>
<p class="p2">He doesn’t say, “Hello,” through the screen door. Instead, he says, “I need a tool from you, Lance.” He stutters: “A screwdriver…A hammer…Something…I see my pile of tools on the floor next to the end table behind you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You have a bunch of tools in your shed, Mike. You can use one of them. I don’t have any to lend out to you today. Go away.”</p>
<p class="p2">I go to the door and begin to block him out of my world forever. I’m just about to close the door on his face and wet-sleek-muscled frame when he says, “Don’t close the door on me. Fuck the tools, Lance. I think we need to get to the point and talk about last night. That visit Honey made. You’re totally reading into it wrong.”</p>
<p class="p2">I push the screen door fully open and don’t move. I look at his wet chest—<span class="t6">no</span>, I can’t prevent his good looks from drawing me in. Forget the hardback novel and my day off reading and relaxing. A tempered and heated day with a sexy Tool is the best day ever! Nervously, I bite my lower lip and eventually find the courage to say to him, “Honey was grabbing your dick and had her breasts in your face. I don’t think I’m reading anything wrong about last night. It’s obvious the two of you have messed around. You’ve fucked her once and you were going to fuck her again, Mike. I don’t want to get involved in that. You like her. She likes you. It’s a match made in straight heaven. I saw what I saw.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Wrong,” he says, hanging his head low. “I never had sex with her. Never. She doesn’t have the tools I want or like.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Could have fooled me. She was on your lap and had her tank pulled up. Her breasts were in your face. I saw everything I needed to see when I was leaving. The two of you are clearly a couple. You obviously have a sex-gig with her going on, or whatever you want to call it.”</p>
<p class="p2">He sighs, lifts his head, and shakes it. Brown, wet strings of hair hang over his left eye. “See, that’s the thing. You’re wrong. We’re. Not. Lovers. I’ve never diddled Honey. No way. You didn’t see anything real at all last night. Honey and I are not a couple. Let me make this clear to you, Lance Baye…We’re not a thing or lovers. She threw herself at me and…and things got a little crazy when you were there. If you stuck around for a few minutes longer you could have seen the ridiculousness that followed. The woman tried to take advantage of me. I could have called the cops on her, but didn’t. I wasn’t physically forceful with her, but did tell her to stop what she was doing. I told her nothing was going to happen between us and…”</p>
<p class="p2">I let him inside, out of the rain. Face to face on the small, rectangular shag rug next to the door, he stares deep into my eyes. He doesn’t touch me, keeping his distance, respecting my space. I’m too transfixed by his stare to admire his wet handsomeness. Instead, I take in every word he says to me: “Honey was looking for something I couldn’t give her…Something I <span class="t6">wasn’t</span> about to give her. Never. She had never been so forward with me like that before. Starr did the same thing to you the other week. Remember? He pushed himself on you and I came to your rescue. Well, Honey did the same thing to me last night, but in a different way.”</p>
<p class="p2">He pauses, wipes rainwater away from his eyes and cheeks. He pushes the strand of wet, brown hair away from his left eye. “It’s not what you think it is between Honey and me. Honestly, it’s not. She’s the neighborhood floozy, looking for the next guy to sleep with. I’m just the newest dick for her to ride. You know that. I know that. Everyone on this block knows it. And she’s not who I want to kiss, hold, or be romantic with. I’m not that kind of guy. I’m not a tool, even if people think I am. I have more integrity than that. I’m not easy like that, guy. Hell, I can’t even tell you the last time I’ve been intimate with, or attracted to someone. Honey does nothing for me. Nothing at all. That’s why I stopped her advancements last night, and told her to pull her tank down and cover her breasts. And then I told her nicely to please get off my lap, and that she had to leave. She wanted to know why. So I told her…I told her…I told her…”</p>
<p class="p2">“You told her what, Mike?…What did you tell her?” I ask him, still caught in his creamy brown eyes, listening to fresh thunder boom behind him in the distant heavens and echo lethargically over the neighborhood, above Brecker Street. Frustrated, nervous, half out of my mind, I reach forward and press a hand to his chest, between his firm and wet pecs. My pinkie finger grazes a nipple. Just right. My face moves closer to his face. My lips almost touch his quivering lips. And I whisper to him, repeating myself, “You told her what, Mike? Tell me. I want to know. What did you tell her?”</p>
<p class="p2">“That…that I think I’ve fallen in love you, Lance Baye, and you have the tools I want in a relationship, and you drive me sexually mad, and I can’t stop thinking about you, and…”</p>
<p class="p2">I pull him towards me by his wet T-shirt and kiss him. My world spins. What happens? Everything scientific that I can’t begin to understand, but my heart feels otherwise. The kiss is: the catena effect, a gravitational pull, a conjunction, an accretion, a synchronous rotation, resonance, and a quadrature. I can barely move, motionless in his arms. Paralyzed. His. Only his.</p>
<p class="p2">And he kisses me in return: powerfully, open-mouthed, without any pulling back whatsoever. He <span class="t6">wants</span> to be kissed, hungry for me, obviously into me, and seals our frames, causing a relentless collision of bodies.</p>
<p class="p2">We tangle together as lightning and thunder dance in a magnificent storm above us in the darkening and threatening clouds. We become one, locking our arms and chests tightly together for the very first time, unable to pull out of this unbreakable, heated, and steamy embrace. Our hearts beat together as we kiss and hold each other next to the screen door. The temperature rises in my saltbox.</p>
<p class="p2">When the kiss ends, I see that he is excited, steel-hard, proof that he truly isn’t into Honey Hertzer. He pants like an animal. His chest rises and falls, unstoppable. He steps deeper into my home, pushing me backwards with one hand, and sweeping the door closed behind with his other hand. He has <span class="t6">my</span> spittle on his lower lip from our kissing-lust: a mix of tongues and lips. Hunger beads in his eyes, turning them glossy-brown as he continues to push me backwards, near the sofa. And he growls, “We’re more than friends now. You know this. I know this. We’re lovers. And I’m going to have you, Lance. All of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">At the sofa, I’m abruptly spun around and my shorts are dropped to my ankles. I hear his belt buckle on his jeans being loosened, jingling. I feel his lips against my spine, from my neck down to my bottom…and…and…</p>
<p class="p2">There’s very little foreplay between us, I confess, not that I mind or it matters. There are no licks to pecs or nipples. There is no kissing against navels or abdominals. There are no tongue-laps to arched necks. There are no strong sniffs to V-patches of pubic hairs or blowjobs. We do not manhandle each other’s tools with long and smooth strokes. Inner thighs are not swabbed with wet tongues. Nor are they bitten. Nothing like this happens. Rather, Mike gets down to business after licking my spine and bottom. Positioned behind me, the length of his hard dick rubs against my ass-slit once, twice, and three times. And he asks me, “Do you want me inside you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes,” I practically beg for his firm tool to punch its way between my ass-orbs. “Please.”</p>
<p class="p2">He finds a condom, rolls it down and over his joint, adds lube, and growls, “It might hurt. I can’t promise that it won’t. Something tells me you want it to hurt.”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t object. I won’t. I’m just about to tell him when it happens: one inch turns into six inches, thus seven as they enter me. It’s a relentless and brutish thrust that I’ve desired since he moved in next door. I buck forward because of the immediate and abrupt surprise and a grunt escapes both of us, but for different reasons; his because of pleasure, and mine because of the forceful pain.</p>
<p class="p2">“Christ!” exits my throat and lips. “It does hurt.”</p>
<p class="p2">His perspiration flings off his forehead and chest and burns against my spine. He says behind me, “Try to enjoy the ride,” and clamps his palms against my hips. Mike begins to ride my bottom slowly, faster, in and out. He becomes a pump behind me, overworked, non-stopping, and very much like a machine.</p>
<p class="p2">“Enjoying,” slips out of me, just as his dick does the same thing.</p>
<p class="p2">My bottom burns: I don’t mind; truth is, I find much pleasure from his speedy, chaotic, and hurtful action. I’m arched over and my head is literally pushed into the sofa’s cushions as he throttles himself inside me, pulls out, and throttles inside again and again. I can barely breathe, but manage. The stinging feels great; everything I want from him; everything that I’ve desired from the stud. I become one with him for ten, thirteen, seventeen minutes, connected the way I’ve always wanted to be connected to him (romantically, physically, emotionally, sexually), sealed together by our hearts and other devices. My ball sack swings to and fro: hastily, slapping against my thighs in frenzied motion, dripping with sweat.</p>
<p class="p2">“Mine,” he whispers. “I wasn’t going to let you get away from me. You’ve always been mine. I’ve been waiting for this since I first caught a view of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You had me from the start. Always. I wasn’t going anywhere.”</p>
<p class="p2">Hereafter, a wraparound occurs. I can’t remember the last time this has happened to me. His right hand lifts from my right hip and rolls down to my center and discovers my extension of hard meat. His fingers and palm wrap around the stick and he begins to milk the shaft up and down, which causes my balls to swing to and fro. In doing so, he calls down and over my back, “Taking care of you. Maybe we can come together.”</p>
<p class="p2">We…We…We move together; simpatico at its finest: I back into his tool and he rushes forward; I pump his right fist with my dick and he yanks on it numerous times, pleasuring me: tugging on the meat, squeezing its mass, rolling his appendages against the beef’s hard-lined veins. We gyrate and move and glide and swing together, just as I always thought we would. How perfectly combined. How breathtaking, maddening, pulverizing, blissful, and just right.</p>
<p class="p2">“Smooth and tight,” he whispers behind me. “This is what I’ve waited for, Lance.”</p>
<p class="p2">As heat rises inside my living room and the storm outside intensifies, I can’t breathe with my head <span class="t6">pushed…pushed…pushed…</span>into the puffy cushions. Honestly, I don’t mind—I <span class="t6">want</span> this to occur. Elation surfaces throughout my entire body. Euphoria. Bliss encompasses me as we sexually communicate and become one—us.</p>
<p class="p2">“Exploding,” he informs me. “Can’t hold it in. Come with me. Come with me now.”</p>
<p class="p2">Mike doesn’t have to tell me twice as he continues to manhandle the flag between my legs. Jolts of electricity zigzag through my core as he does some hardcore action on my bottom. Fire burns me from the inside out. Like the lover behind me, I can no longer hold my own load and…</p>
<p class="p2">“Shooting,” I moan, and douse the sofa with my white and creamy seed, decorating the material: splotches and strings and dots and zigzags; I’m a lover-artist at work.</p>
<p class="p2">“Coming…inside you, man. Only you. Only you,” he growls behind me, banging me one last time, pressing his pelvic bone to my bottom, holding it there, emptying his cargo inside the plastic that separates us. Unloading. Coming. Firing. Discharging.</p>
<p class="p2">Depleted.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">After our round of heated sexual exploration, we sit on the living room floor in front of the sofa and kiss. Naked, our arms entangle. One of his legs slides over mine, affectionately. We huff and puff. As our mouths connect, the storm outside rumbles and roars and cracks, growing into an angry fit. Both of us stink of sweat and man-jack-goo, but neither of us cares as we continue to kiss and hug.</p>
<p class="p2">When our kissing ends, he pulls away from me and says, “You blind me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I tend to do this to men. You’ll get dizzy and sick and long for my love more and more,” I tell him.</p>
<p class="p2">He chuckles. “I won’t be going back to Phoenix unless you come with me. You’ve caught me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I expected this to happen.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Arrogance is sexy on you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re sexy on me…and inside me.”</p>
<p class="p2">He kisses me again: sweetly, bites at my lower lip, slides his tongue inside my mouth. When the kiss ends, he says, “I do love you, Lance. I wasn’t just telling you that to push your head into the sofa. My heart is right here if you want it.”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t have to think about his statement. Not for a second, or longer. A smile comes to my face. My heart skips a beat. My chest trembles like the storm outside. I found him, and intend to keep him in my life. He’s not going anywhere if it’s up to me. I reply, “I want it, Mike. All of it. All of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">Thus, the reason we kiss again, and begin another stormy session of lovemaking with our tools on the living room floor, during the beating storm and our continuous heartbeats.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“You should be ashamed of yourself. It smells like sex in here,” Marcus tells me the following day. He wants to stick around at my place and play his dragon/knight video game. I don’t mind since I’m getting ready to leave. Mike and I are planning to have lunch down by The Point and three rivers. It’s almost noon. I have just climbed out of the shower after spending the night and morning with Tool. He asks, “Did he really bang you over the sofa?”</p>
<p class="p2">I won’t lie, and blush. “He did take advantage of me, but I wanted him to. Truth said, it was more like <span class="t6">in</span> the sofa.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What do you mean by that?”</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, sparing no detail.</p>
<p class="p2">“He really had your head buried in the cushions?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He did.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So he is a tool?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s not. Really, he’s not. There’s so much more to him. I found out he reads Robert Riley books, he knows trigonometry, and he has a degree in chemistry. Just because he has a lot of muscle doesn’t mean he’s a tool.”</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus laughs at me. “Sounds like you enjoyed his tool three times since yesterday.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh. “I did. His libido is unstoppable. A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do. He’s a dragon and I’m his slayer.”</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus rolls his eyes at me. “Is he really nine inches long?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes.”‘</p>
<p class="p2">“And two inches thick?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes. He’s huge. It hurt like a motherfucker, but I loved every second of it.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No wonder you wanted him to fuck you. Hell, I want him to fuck me.”</p>
<p class="p2">I roll my eyes and warn him, “Find your own man. Leave Mike alone. He’s mine.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re calling him Mike now?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because that’s his name.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because he’s had his huge dick in you three times? How appropriate.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Stop,” I say to him. “You’re awful.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And funny.” He turns on his knight/dragon game, settles in front of the flat-screen. “Did you tell him you love him?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I did.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Before or after he fucked you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Does it matter?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Of course it does.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It was before. What’s the difference?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because if you told him afterwards, it’s just corny and it’s like saying thank you for banging me with my head in the sofa, pal. But if it was before, then it’s like saying, this is real, and serious. It’s like saying I want to be your lover and boyfriend.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So it’s serious.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sounds like it.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Do you think it’s still a mistake to be with him?” I ask, dripping wet, needing to get ready to meet Mike next door in less than five minutes.</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus looks up at me and smiles. He must see the concern on my face because he stands, walks to me, and collects my cheeks in his palms. He rubs his nose against my nose. “What do you think?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I think our walls have been torn down and we’re both into each other. I think we’re still getting to know each other and he has already fallen in love with me, and vice versa. I know I like spending time with him, and everything about him. And he did tell me that he doesn’t intend to move back to Phoenix. That’s how hooked he is on me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Then it sounds like you have your answer, Lance. You make a good case. You have a boyfriend on your hands. He’s your lover. And you might have a match made in heaven with this guy. He could end up being your husband someday.”</p>
<p class="p2">“He might,” I tell him.</p>
<p class="p2">“Only time will tell,” he says, pulls away from me, and heads back to his game and the floor.</p>
<p class="p2">“True that. But it feels pretty solid, if you want me to be honest,” I say, smiling from ear to ear, feel an electric jump in my chest, and between my legs, and rush out of my house, toward a special someone who pulls at my heartstrings, and more…Someone who won’t get away from me, and will always be mine.</p>
<p class="p2"> </p>
<p class="p4">THE END</p>
<p class="p4"> </p>
</body>
</html>
2023-02-04 17:20:38 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-04 17:20:39 INFO  - Step 12 - I open font settings
2023-02-04 17:20:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:20:42 INFO  - Step 13 - I INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-02-04 17:20:42 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:20:44 INFO  - Step 14 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-02-04 17:20:44 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-02-04 17:20:44 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-02-04 17:20:45 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-04 17:20:46 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="Generator" content="Atlantis Word Processor 3.3.3.1" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
<title></title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p0"><span class="t2">Tool</span></p>
<p class="p0">By R.W. Clinger</p>
<p class="p2">“What are you looking at, Sir Lance-A-Pot?” Marcus says from behind me on the floor. He is playing some video game with dragons, castles, and handsome knights in shining armor. “Get away from the window and give your new neighbor some space. Help me slay this three-headed dragon before he has me for lunch.”</p>
<p class="p2">Sometimes I think Marcus lives with me in my two-bedroom saltbox in downtown Pittsburgh because he’s always around. But my bestie doesn’t. He has his own place across the Allegheny River on the North Side, next to Heinz Stadium in the Mexican War Streets District. Maybe he likes my place better than his, although, if ever asked, I will surely disagree with the person regarding this statement, hands down, since his place is vast, three levels, and has an incredible view of downtown.</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, “I haven’t smoked pot in three months. Since Valentine’s Day. When Ricky Starr broke my heart. So you can’t call me that anymore. I’m pot- and boyfriend-free.”</p>
<p class="p2">He clicks and clacks the handheld device with his fingers and thumbs, controlling some time-traveling fool he has named Gridiron. “Starr isn’t boyfriend material. He might look good and stir your private parts, but trust me, he doesn’t have a brain in that delicious body. He’s into cars, muscles, and drugs. You will never have an in-depth conversation about gentrification or climate control in highly-populated cities with him.”</p>
<p class="p2">It’s early May and I stand at my open living room window. I roll my eyes. Sometimes Marcus is too honest with me. Frankly, I’d be perfectly fine if he lied to me once or twice. Guess this will never happen, though. Too bad. I ignore him and check out Tool in the double lot next door. My neighbor’s a dreamboat that stands at six-three with a golden brown tan all year round, wavy cinnamon-brown hair, a chiseled body at 210 pounds with perky nipples, pumped abs, and creamy brown eyes. He’s bent over the engine of a mustard-colored 1976 Nova. He’s in the mouth of a single red-brick garage where he works. His ripped back and tight bottom faces me. The guy sports a pair of tight, greasy jeans, cowboy boots, and no belt. The hood of the Nova is propped open and a blue metal tool box sits on the right side of the engine, open. He grabs a stainless-steel tool out of the box, clicks and clacks it against the engine, hard at work, looking like Hercules, Troy, or Apollo, and causes me to ogle him like a high school boy.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind Tool is the semi-dark garage filled with managed clutter: working fan that Tool sometimes plugs in and uses; paint cans of many colors on one wall; workbench to the right with a heap of stainless-steel tools; hubcaps galore here and there, a radio near the fan. Next to the Nova’s rear bumper is a single man-door to exit from the garage. There’s also a foldable steel chair. Sometimes Tool sits here and enjoys a smoke. He relaxes, taking in life for a minute or two, drifts away…somewhere. He has pretty much taken over the garage from his uncle, who I rarely see these days, enjoying his (<span class="t6">private?)</span> time.</p>
<p class="p2">Over my right shoulder, I lower my voice and ask Marcus, “Do you think the guy next door knows he turns me on when he’s working on the Nova?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Hell no. He’s a good neighbor who minds his own business. Unlike you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I snicker, admiring Tool’s bronze, flexing shoulders and back.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind me, I hear an angry dragon make a horrendous squealing sound, breathe fire, and a man scream on the seventy-two-inch flat-screen. It definitely sounds like Marcus has just lost one of his three lives. “Fuck!” he yells, and pounds the heel of a foot against the hardwood floor.</p>
<p class="p2">The outburst is loud. Tool hears it. He grabs a greasy rag, spins around, lifts his head, and checks me out in the window like I’m Juliet in a high school play. Adorably, he sports grease on his right cheek, and his left pec. I can’t help myself and check out his chest: swollen pecs with perky nipples, unlimited puffed abs, treasure trail beneath his navel. Just a beautiful specimen. Gloriously spectacular.</p>
<p class="p2">Neighbor guy winks at me, smiles, and calls up like Romeo, “Everything okay over there, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">I yell down to him, “Never better! My friend is here and he’s losing at a video game. I think a dragon just toasted his ass!”</p>
<p class="p2">“My skin and muscle are burning off my bones,” Marcus whines, presses a button on the video console, and attempts to save a village called Windysour for the gazillionth time.</p>
<p class="p2">My neighbor nods, keeps his handsome grin and eye contact, goofily laughs, and calls, “Tell him to be careful. We need as many dragon slayers in this world we can get.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’ll do that,” I say, and spin around, feel a twitch of blissful excitement at my center, leave the guy to his dilapidated Nova.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Tool isn’t the guy next door’s birth name. His real name happens to be Michael James Danning. But Marcus and I love to call him Tool because this is how he acts, and what he looks like: big, handsome, sometimes dumb sounding. I know very little about him: recently moved from Phoenix to Pittsburgh to take care of his Uncle Craig Danning, who lives in the house next door and has always kept to himself. Uncle Craig suffers from open-angle glaucoma and he’s slowly going blind. Craig uses Tool as a…tool, of course. Tool’s the same age as me: thirty-four; a year younger than Marcus.</p>
<p class="p2">I’ve done an hour or two of homework on Tool and know that he works as an electrician for the city schools: black wire, red wire, white, red…<span class="t6">zzzzolt! </span>It’s a superior job these days that offers a healthy paycheck, great bennies, and a reliable source of income. Before his Uncle Craig retired the summer before from the local school district, he’d taught English for over thirty years. This is how Tool got his job in maintenance for Pittsburgh Schools. Sometimes it’s not what you do that lands you the elite gigs in life, it’s who you know; Tool is the perfect product of this theory. Without his uncle, he wouldn’t have the job he does.</p>
<p class="p2">More of my homework showed that he’s not a vegetarian, he’s big on ordering-in sushi and pizza, works out almost every day in his uncle’s side yard with a massive eighteen-wheeler tire, next to the garage, and he enjoys action-packed movies; the higher the body count, the better, obviously. I never see him have visitors at his uncle’s place, or socialize with men or women of any age. In fact, he’s somewhat of a homebody, keeping to himself, and keeping his uncle company, rarely straying from Brecker Street. He drives a 2021 navy blue Dodge Charger, and leaves his uncle’s house at around seven-thirty in the morning for work and returns around five in the evening. There’s a battered refrigerator in the rear of the garage with beer inside that he drinks; probably the only negative feature I learn about him, not that I care. Sometimes he drinks Budweiser. Sometimes it’s Miller. I rarely see him with an IPA.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“Motherfucker!” Marcus yells behind me. “The fucking dragon burned me to a crisp again!”</p>
<p class="p2">I hear Marcus toss the remote at the flat-screen: <span class="t6">click, clank, thunk</span>. Tool must hear his outrage because he looks up at me. He pushes a brown wave of hair out of his eyes, grins, and calls up to my living room window, “Sounds like the dragon slayer died again.”</p>
<p class="p2">“‘Fraid so. Once a loser knight, always a loser knight.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Hey!” Marcus yells at me. “I have unlimited lives!”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool hears this and smiles from ear to ear. It melts me. There’s nothing better than when a handsome man smiles, showing off his pearly whites and upturned cheeks. It’s a total turn-on for me; a simple action I’ve always loved, particularly with Tool today.</p>
<p class="p2">As Marcus calms down and refreshes his game, my eye-gig with Tool becomes heated and untamed. Something strange and erotic happens. There’s a rag in Tool’s toolbox which he snags and wipes grease off his hands. To no avail, it doesn’t accomplish much. Tool walks out of the garage to the side yard where he keeps a battered workbench with heavy weights and his giant tire. He finds a coiled hose on the ground next to a narrow bed of daffodils, turns it on, and attempts to clean off one hand and then the other. I’m not sure if this works or not, but he’s certainly diligent about the process. In doing so, facing me, some of the hose water splashes against his chest. Droplets roll down and over his hard pecs and nipples. Clear water drags along his navel and into the lip of his snug jeans. Some of the liquid darkens his mound of denim-covered crotch.</p>
<p class="p2">I’m not sure if he does this water act on purpose, performing for me, teasing me, but it is a tantalizing show and a total turn-on. Things stir below my waistline that maybe shouldn’t. My private parts come alive and vibrate, harden somewhat, and twitch. I whisper, “OhmyGod,” completely caught off guard by his solo performance with the hose and water and his muscles.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind me, Marcus asks, “What’s going on over there?”</p>
<p class="p2">I stammer, “Nothing…nothing at all.”</p>
<p class="p2">Does Tool wink at me? I think so. I’m really not sure. Maybe he does. Maybe he doesn’t. Jesus, I’m so confused. Dizzy. Breathless. Enflamed. Sweating from toes to head. I take the back of one hand and wipe it across my forehead and puff my cheeks, exhale.</p>
<p class="p2">Tool. He eventually turns off the hose and vanishes into his uncle’s house, leaving me excited and hard.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Damn men!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">And damn him!</span></p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Later this week. Twilight. Closer to dark than not. Sticky-hot. Eighty-eight degrees thanks to global warming. I get this bright idea to borrow a tool from Tool. Why not? What do I have to lose? Maybe a screwdriver. Maybe a handsaw. Maybe a wrench. I have yet to decide. Maybe when I’m face to face with the stud I’ll make up my mind and tell him what I need…What every gay man needs from a Tool. Until this moment arises, I…</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t know why I’m attracted to Tool. Is it his bulging muscles, his handsome face, or his mysteriousness? Maybe it’s all the above. I’m sure. How can I not be sure? I’ve never been into tools. Never. Not once in my life. I’m more into thin geeks with glasses and no muscles. Weaklings. Bookish types. Men who read nonfiction. Men with high IQs and are usually weak. I’m drawn to men with bowties, electrified brains, and Harvard scholars with nicely pressed shirts. I like gangly types who understand chemical reactions, fractions, and how the planets sometimes line up among the spacious stars. <span class="t6">Never</span>…never have I been sexually attracted to, or chemically dependent on, or interested in, a tool. Not once.</p>
<p class="p2">Until now.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Now.</span></p>
<p class="p2">But Tool has this magnetism about him that I don’t fully understand. His broad shoulders. His summer suntan. Hair that hangs in his eyes. His beaming eyes. His chiseled chest. The treasure trail above the lip of his jeans. His corded biceps. His firm nipples. The pumped lump of pipe in his jeans between his legs. His thick thighs and…</p>
<p class="p2">He has a pull that causes my balance to slip left, slip right, and go off kilter. The hungry draw prompts me to dress in a short-short pair of running shorts—<span class="t6">I’m a whore, such a bad little whore, a toy that wants to be played with, needed, wanted, desired, kiss me, press against me against something and do what you will with me, press inside me, pull on my dick, pump me with you, let me play with your dick, shame on me, because I’m a dirty dirty dirty dirty little whore</span>—and no shirt this evening. I feel animalistic and brave and daring and step out of my comfort zone and strut over to his uncle’s property.</p>
<p class="p2">I walk down the sidewalk and pass the battered gym set and the large tire that Tool uses to work out. Behind the garage is Craig Danning’s red-brick saltbox; a mirror image of my place. To the left of the house is the garage. I walk to the front of the garage, which I can’t see from my living room window, find myself inside the garage, and discover Tool seated on an old chair, half-hidden behind the Nova, sweaty and bare-chested, nipple-hard and caught off guard by my sudden, unannounced visit.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Oops, my bad. What have I done?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I’ve interrupted you on purpose. Haven’t I? Shame on me.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Shame. Shame. Shame.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I’m such a bad bad bad bad neighbor.</span></p>
<p class="p2">He looks up from his cell phone. “Lance. What brings you over here?”</p>
<p class="p2">Nervously, he fumbles his phone in his hands and immediately turns it off. Before he shuts it off, I see a half-naked dude on its glowing screen: muscular, hard-packed, no shirt, hairy-chested like me, suntanned and golden brown like me, blond like me, blue-eyed like me, Caribbean Sea backdrop behind the sun-dude’s frame, lemon-colored bikini covering hard junk shaped like a banana. Filth. Absolute filth on his phone.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Oh my God, what have I walked in on?</span></p>
<p class="p2">“I need to borrow a tool, Mike. It’s Mike, right? Mike Danning?”</p>
<p class="p2">Lost in the garage’s shadows, does he push away a boner in his shorts? I think so, but I’m not sure. What else would he be pushing away? Nothing that I can imagine.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">What? What? What? What did I walk in on?</span></p>
<p class="p2">Was he getting busy with himself before my arrival? Does the boner boy on his cell phone turn him on? Was he getting ready to jack out a load to the filth on his phone just before my arrival? Probably, by the looks of it. Actually, I have no doubt.</p>
<p class="p2">Someone’s uncomfortable. He clears his throat, shifts left in his chair, shifts right.</p>
<p class="p2">I see right through his gig. I’ve done this move before. Many times. I’m a guy. I’ve had a boner before. <span class="t6">Many times</span>. I know what he’s doing: buying some time to deflate the blood-filled erection between his legs. Getting his shit together. Acting like he wasn’t getting off to a picture of some hot dude on his phone.</p>
<p class="p2">He fakes a cough, which sounds ridiculous. Totally bad acting. B-rated stuff. “Yes…Yes, it’s Mike Danning. What tool do you need?”</p>
<p class="p2">“A wrench.”</p>
<p class="p2">He has his composure together. Finally. He quickly rattles off, “Pipe, open-end, box, socket, ratcheting, crescent…Which kind?”</p>
<p class="p2">Jesus. I’m pretty clueless about wrenches. I have no idea there would be so many to choose from. Maybe I should have done my homework on such a tool before slipping over here? “Ahh…Crescent. Yeah…That should do the trick.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What size?”</p>
<p class="p2">I have no fucking idea and guess, “Four-inch.”</p>
<p class="p2">He stands and I see a shadowy bulge at his center, under his thigh-tight jeans. He’s definitely semi-hard…Chub stuff all the way. Definitely turned on by the blond guy who looks like me on his cell phone…Definitely has a good chance of being queer…Definitely was about to get off and pop a load in the semi-darkness…Definitely was going to blow it all over his plated chest or on the garage’s floor.</p>
<p class="p2">He fetches the wrench from the tool bench to his left, which allows me to check out his bare back and tight waist in the blue-purple-red twilight hues.</p>
<p class="p2">“Damn,” I accidentally whisper, excited by his good looks.</p>
<p class="p2">There’s very little space where he stands, but he finds enough room to spin around and face me. The chub is gone from between his legs. Too bad. He holds the wrench in his right hand, awkwardly between his solid pecs, which makes him look like a tool model and causes me to drool. I want to smirk because he’s a tool holding a tool, but don’t.</p>
<p class="p2">He asks, “Excuse me? Did you say something, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">“No. Nothing.”</p>
<p class="p2">He passes me the wrench, which is heavier than I think it should be. As I take it from him, I scan his frame again from toes to head and calculate his handsomeness as above average: football player-sized, rugged-right, mighty and meaty, tasty all the way, and about as sexy as hell. Again, I want to say <span class="t6">damn</span>, but keep the word to myself, and stay on my best behavior. No need to make a scene. No way.</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks for this,” I say, wave the wrench and nod. “It will come in handy.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Good thing. Glad I can help.”</p>
<p class="p2">I’m just about to make my exit, slipping past the parked Nova, when he says, “Do you want to stick around and have a beer with me?”</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">How about a hot fuck? How about a dick-snack on your chub?</span> I want to ask him these curt questions, but don’t. Instead, I bloom with a smile, feel my insides burn with pleasure, feel a necessary twitch between my legs, and reply, “Sure. No problem. I’d like a beer. Some convo with you would be nice, too. Thanks.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">We do more than have a beer and convo in the back of his uncle’s garage. Because we’re not children. Because we’re adults. Because we are neighbors and we can.</p>
<p class="p2">He bashfully asks, “Do you trust me?”</p>
<p class="p2">“More than the both of us probably realize.”</p>
<p class="p2">He blinks once, twice, three times. “Do you smoke weed?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sometimes.” I sound confident, overly eager.</p>
<p class="p2">“Will you do a hit with me this evening?”</p>
<p class="p2">What I want him to hit is my ass with his solid, erect, pulsing, and veined dick. Fire burns around my heart and navel. The two areas connect, create a line of pure heat. “Sure. Light a stick up.”</p>
<p class="p2">So he lights a joint and we smoke it, pass the stick back and forth. The shit hits me hard since I haven’t smoked in months. Dizziness soaks my skull. My mouth goes dry. My stomach immediately turns. I forgot about these personal side effects, but I don’t care, enjoying my Tool time and his wacky tobacky.</p>
<p class="p2">Behind his uncle’s Nova, sitting across from each other, our knees almost touching, getting high, we chuckle and talk about the neighborhood. Tool might be new to the block, but he knows everything. He fills me in: Mrs. Hinderson is a mean bitch, threatening to kill anyone who crosses her; Paul the Postman is dating Rob Neilson, a fireman, the two like to make movies while they play together with their hoses and upload the flicks on PornHub; Honey Hertzer flaunts her big boobies (among other body parts) to every available guy on the block; she invites men into her flat to lick whipped cream off her breasts and call her Momma, among other naughty sexy tricks and treats; Pastor Bob at 438 Brecker is being questioned about kiddy porn; Angela Dodson just married her long-time lover, Becky Hill after sixty years; and slumlord Paul Godden got arrested for having cameras in all his female tenants’ bathrooms.</p>
<p class="p2">Following another beer, stick of Jane, and neighborhood gossip/chatter, I ask, “How’s your uncle?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks for asking. Right now he’s taking specialized drugs to reduce pressure in his eyes. They’re drops. I believe in the fall he’ll have an operation.”</p>
<p class="p2">Our knees finally touch, grazing. It’s about time. Thank God.</p>
<p class="p2">He locks eyes with me.</p>
<p class="p2">I become nervous and ask, “What kind of operation?”</p>
<p class="p2">“It’s called MIGS. Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery. They are implants, or tools, designed to effectively restore fluid in the eye. It’s like cataract surgery to help reduce eye pressure. It might prevent him from going blind.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re pretty special to take care of him. He probably doesn’t realize what a wonder you are.”</p>
<p class="p2">He chuckles, and admits, “I’m pretty drunk and high right now is what I am.” I don’t know if he realizes it or not, but he reaches forward and touches the exposed, blond hair on my inner, right thigh. He fingers the thigh and asks, “What do you do for a living?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I help design surgical tools. Scalpels. Blades. Retractors. Needle holders. I went to Carnegie Mellon here in Pittsburgh and have a degree in engineering.”</p>
<p class="p2">He pulls his invading hand away from my thigh. Too bad. I rather liked his fingers touching my bare skin. Sometimes a man wants to be touched. “Sounds elite.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Not really. I sit at a computer and look at drawings and numbers all day. My job is to piece the shit together and help make it work. It’s all about diagrams and figures.”</p>
<p class="p2">He tells me he’s an electrician for the city schools, but I already know this, among other intricate details about his life. I want to know something I’m not privy to about his life and ask, “Your Uncle Craig never mentioned you. How are you related to him and where are you from?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s my mother’s brother, and I’m originally from Erie. There’s a small town called Templeton where I grew up. It’s next to Erie. My parents own a log cabin in the woods there. Lots of wildlife and beautiful sunrises. They rent the place out now. When I lived there, it used to leave me feeling blessed to be alive every day, it’s so beautiful. Think of the most extraordinary landscape painting you can dream of. One that literally gives you shivers in your toes and shoulders. That’s what it felt like to me.</p>
<p class="p2">“My parents separated when I turned fifteen. I moved west to Phoenix with my mother. My father went to Palm Beach. My mom has a sister who lives right down the street from her. I rent a flat near the university.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So you’re not sticking around here in the city for long, are you? You’ll help your uncle through his surgery and you’ll head west again? The city isn’t for you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Depends what I could stick to while I’m here, and if it’s worth staying or not. The city isn’t a bad place to live. I can get used to it.” His comments don’t come across as flirtatious, ambiguous, or as sexual innuendos. I’m really not sure what he’s saying, but I’m open for wherever our conversation goes, or whatever they do or don’t hint to, mostly because I’m high and because the cheap beer tastes good.</p>
<p class="p2">I want to ask him if he’s into dudes instead of ladies, but I think I already know the answer to my question because his fingers discover my bare thigh again, and travel northward bound, to my private parts. Instead, I ask him, “This Nova’s been sitting here for the last ten years. Do you think you’ll get it running?”</p>
<p class="p2">“With the right tools I will.” He sounds confident. “It’s all about the tools, Lance. In every situation. At all times.” His hand climbs higher and higher up my thigh, teasing me, turning me on, and causing a number of emotions to turn and twist in me: confusion, hardness, trepidation, excitement, bedazzlement, overzealousness.</p>
<p class="p2">I lose air, becoming breathless and light-headed. I’m almost incapable of saying, “Marcus and I know nothing about cars.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Is Marcus the dragon slayer?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He is.”</p>
<p class="p2">He…He caresses my thigh. One stroke. Two strokes. Three strokes. “You two boyfriends or do you just fuck around with each other?”</p>
<p class="p2">“No. No. No.” My voice cracks. “Never. We’re just friends. He’d drive me crazy if we were boyfriends. And we never fuck around. No handjobs or anything like that. I like a guy who’s more balanced. Dragon slayers are off limits. Sometimes he’s off the charts when it comes to keeping his composure together. He’s totally not my type of guy.” I basically out myself with these statements, but whatever. Again, it’s the pot and beer. Oh well. <span class="t6">He’s the one touching my thigh and making me hard.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“Where is he at tonight? He’s usually at your house.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I know he’s there a lot, but he has his own place. Marcus is on business in Silicon Valley the next few days. He makes computer chips for video games.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Gotcha,” he says. “It all makes sense now. He’s a computer chip slayer then.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh.</p>
<p class="p2">He laughs.</p>
<p class="p2">Unfortunately he slides his hand away from my personal parts. Too bad. Damn.</p>
<p class="p2">The both of us become somewhat loaded on beer and we continue to talk for the next two hours. Time passes with such ease; I enjoy myself without overthinking. I learn so much about the man, I can’t even digest it all. A friendship blooms easily between us, without conditions. He flatters me because of his openness. I relish the facts I learn about him. Lists of likes and dislikes.</p>
<p class="p2">His likes: the color yellow; South Dakota (he’s visited there twice); French, although he speaks very little of the language; Batman over Superman; horror novels by Peter Straub; game shows; cowboys; Matchbox 20 (he’s seen the band in concert three times); kittens over puppies; the movie <span class="t6">The Shape of Water</span>; algebra; beer over cocktails; football over baseball.</p>
<p class="p2">His dislikes: cell phones and technology; pollution; Republicans; anything related to racism and discrimination of any sort; how time unravels so quickly and is unstoppable; the destruction of human rights; Mother Nature’s fury; innocent prisoners; humans traveling in space; clowns; Botox; skinny pool boys; unsharpened knives.</p>
<p class="p2">Close to midnight, our evening eventually comes to an end. The moon sends shards of harmless and magical silver-white rays of light into the garage. I tell him, “I have to work in the morning.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Me too.”</p>
<p class="p2">I stand.</p>
<p class="p2">He stands. “I’ll walk you home.” A short and abrupt laugh escapes him that sounds like a boy’s. “Or at least to the end of the yard.”</p>
<p class="p2">Such a gentleman. I don’t object.</p>
<p class="p2">We squeeze through the narrow space between the Nova and the workbench. Near the end of the garage, facing my living room and the window from where I watch him, I feel one of his palms against my hip. He gently touches my ribs, abs, and chest hair. I don’t move away from his caress. Never. Not tonight. Not anytime soon.</p>
<p class="p2">Nervous, I mutter, “The moon is beautiful tonight. It has so many emotions in its face.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So human-like. Similar to us on many levels.” He adds, “Be careful. It’s dangerous in here. If you fall, you’ll slice your head open, or something. I don’t want that to happen. No emergencies tonight. Okay?”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t pull away from his touch. Nor do I act surprised by it. In fact, it’s pleasurable and—I won’t lie to myself, never, at least not under tonight’s crisp moonlight, no way—I want him to seduce me here in the grunge and grime of his uncle’s garage, and take advantage of my skin, any way he wants to. Against the Nova. Over the workbench. Standing up. On one of the chairs where we sat and discussed our lives. Over a chair. Because I desire him. Because Sir-Lance-A-Pot has needs and desires. Because I want him inside me. All of him. The two of us pressed as one. Some way. Somehow.</p>
<p class="p2">Unfortunately he drops his hand from my hip as we exit the small brick building and silver moonlight cascades down and over our partially naked bodies. At the edge of the two properties—his back facing the front of the Nova, and my back facing my living room window—we face each other. Our chests almost touch, as well our crotches. Thick heat rises between us, smolders. I feel as if I’m going to fall to the pre-summertime grass. My stomach jolts. I honestly think he’s going to take me in his arms and hug me, but he doesn’t. Instead, he simply says, “See you around.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Around,” I reply, barely capable of speaking because I am drunk, dizzy, horny, and lost among the folds of night.</p>
<p class="p2">The moment ends as I head to the front of my saltbox, nervously trot into the quiet and dark house, and begin to think for maybe the first time: He might not just be a tool after all. There’s more to him. Someone I can like. For me.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Two interesting things happen when I become settled inside my saltbox this late evening:</p>
<p class="p2">One: I realize I’d forgotten the wrench Tool lent me. What was I thinking? Why did I do that? Did I have too much to drink? Was my head screwed on too loosely?</p>
<p class="p2">And two: I hear grunts and growls echo from the rear of the garage. I take an extended gander from my living room window, spying on him.</p>
<p class="p2">What I witness just about blows my world apart. <span class="t6">Boom!</span> Tool sits in one of the chairs behind the Nova; I can see a sliver of his silhouette in the glow of his cell phone’s light. His jeans are bunched around to his Nike shoes. A shadowy erection stands upright between his legs: veined, pulsing. The man’s nipples and pecs are about as hard as steel. He spreads his legs ever so slightly and works the staff between his thighs up and down, up and down, up and down with both palms. I hear the familiar grunts and growls escape his mouth, throat, and the garage, and watch him thrust his hips upwards, into his fist, one pummel after the next, after the next, after the next. He arches his back, murmurs something I can’t make out, gurgles, gargles, mumbles, and continues to play with himself, thrust his hips upwards, and upwards, heavily pants and…</p>
<p class="p2">An animalistic growl echoes in the night and throughout the neighborhood—it’s deviant, guttural, and monstrous, yet sexy at the same time—as a glowing arc of thick ejaculate spirals out of his sweat-slick post and splatters against the man’s chest and chin. The goop clings and hangs on his glossy, perspiration-covered skin until he wipes it away with fingers, post-sexed, exhausted, and he wilts in the steel chair; the sexy and naked neighbor spent from jacking off.</p>
<p class="p2">Both of us heavily perspire. Both of us are exhausted. Both of us are deflated.</p>
<p class="p2">I feel thick lust within the summertime heat between my legs; a burst of sexual delight—pure stickiness.</p>
<p class="p2">The night wears on.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">The next morning, before I rush off to work, before my day starts and I turn moody because of the monotony of the world, I find the crescent wrench on my front stoop. The tool causes my morning frown to turn upside down. There’s a piece of notebook paper tied to its handle with rawhide. The paper reads: <span class="t6">left this behind</span>. I bring the wrench and note inside and place both on one of the end tables next to my sofa and forget about them. Tool is more important than the wrench, right? Right.</p>
<p class="p2">As I drive my vintage Rabbit to Spectrum Tools on the other side of town, I wonder if the night before was nothing more than my mind playing tricks on me: intimate, one-on-one time spent with Tool; our in-depth conversations about each other’s lives, becoming friends; learning about each other; hints of flirting; the beer drinking and pot smoking; the somewhat naked doppelganger of me on his cell phone; the way he touched my inner thigh (more than once) with his fingertips, maybe turned on by me, maybe not; the way he touched my hip when I was leaving the garage. It all had to be a head game of sorts, teasing at its best; something I only dreamed of, wishing for, wanting from him; a deep desire. None of it was reality, of course. Not a minute. Not a second. All of it was a dreamy state of exhaustion because of the heat and the humidity that mixed and caused a hallucinogenic state.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">The evening was too hot.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I was drugged.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">My mind had played tricks on me.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">It had to be that way.</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Had to be.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“I can’t think of any other way it could have been,” I say to myself in the Rabbit, driving…driving…driving. “No way. No way at all.”</p>
<p class="p2">Of course.</p>
<p class="p2">How ludicrous of me to think something different.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Trouble when I get back to Brecker Street after work and settle in. When Marcus is out of town, I follow a routine after my work day: shower, change into some comfortable clothes, eat a salad, and cook a portion of protein on the grill for dinner, have a cocktail after dinner, and watch something on Netflix or Hulu. Lately I’ve been indulging a series on Hulu called <span class="t6">A Teacher</span> and absolutely love it. I’ve told Marcus about it, but he’s far too busy playing video games in his spare time.</p>
<p class="p2">Anyway, I do my deed and shower, dress in a pair of shorts and nothing else because Mother Nature is still persisting with her heat wave. I cook dinner, eat, and enjoy my chosen cocktail, a single Kamikaze, which goes down smoothly. I’m just about to find pleasure in a few episodes of my chosen series when the front door of my saltbox bursts open and a pissed off Ricky Starr, my ex-boyfriend, shows up out of the blue.</p>
<p class="p2">The door slams closed behind him. Starr looks good in a pair of snug shorts, sandals, and nothing more. Always did. Probably always will. The black hair on his chest is covered in a thick evening sweat, and his robust muscles look fully pumped with testosterone. Unfortunately, he’s high on something from the city streets; just one of the many reasons why I dumped him three months before. I’m thinking it must be one of the newest sniff-drugs: Raw, Bent, or Calypso. Who knows? He’s wired, on fire, and his eyes are about as open as the three major tunnels in the city. Plus, his lips are chapped, dried, and cracked; a sure sign he’s been hooked on the <span class="t6">sniff</span> for a few weeks, even months.</p>
<p class="p2">“No. No. No.” I shake my head and freeze on the sofa. My gut turns. “Starr, what are you doing here?” I say, shocked to see him. I don’t want to see him. Never. Ever. Again.</p>
<p class="p2">He rushes toward me, jumps on me, straddles me like a bull, presses me into the sofa with his massive muscles and weight, and gives me a hard slap to my left cheek, and I taste blood in my mouth. He repositions himself, spreads my legs open, and slaps my bare pecs with one of his palms. He laughs, “I came to get busy with you, motherfucker. A man needs some fun. A man needs to slip his dick into things.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No! No! No!” I try to push him off and away from me, but he’s large, almost twice my size. Too meaty. Too massive and muscular. The man is <span class="t6">huge</span>. The guy is rugby- or American football-large. Not fat. Just all muscle. “This isn’t happening! Get off me! You’re hurting me!”</p>
<p class="p2">And this…this is the horrible life I remember with him: the drugs and alcohol and physical abuse and his problems, addictions, pain and how I suffered with him and became miserable and unhappy and someone I didn’t want to be. I freed myself from him. I flew away. I became myself and whole again. I’m a butterfly now: changed and distant from him. Floating away from him. No longer trapped.</p>
<p class="p2">“No…No…No,” I grumble, and push him away with all my might. Tears grow in the corners of my eyes. My heart thuds and my brain swells to twice its size as fear disables every thought.</p>
<p class="p2">His lips meet my neck and one of his hands roll against my dick and balls, which doesn’t turn me on. Not in the slightest. When he comes off for air, he laughs and says, “Come on. What about for old time’s sake? Don’t you want to be a couple with me again? Let me get inside you. I want to bury your face in the sofa and fuck you. You used to like that. No. Wrong. You used to <span class="t6">love</span> that. You couldn’t get enough of my dick inside you. What do you say?”</p>
<p class="p2">“There is no old time’s sake with you. Get! Off! Me! Now!”</p>
<p class="p2">He doesn’t listen. He dry humps my middle, hard against me, attempts to pull my shorts down at the same time, and goes at my neck as if he’s a vampire, sucking at its corded veins.</p>
<p class="p2">I try to push him away with my fists. “Off, Starr!…This isn’t happening!…Get off me!…Now!”</p>
<p class="p2">And this, ladies and gentleman, is why I cannot fall in love with Ricky Starr and live happily ever after with him. This is why we are no longer coupled. This is why I think: <span class="t6">Where is Marcus when I need him? He usually protects me with his presence. Doesn’t Marcus keep the fire-breathing dragons away from my life? Isn’t he a knight in shining armor of sorts? Why can’t he be here this evening and defend and protect me? Isn’t he always here at my place?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Where is he?</span></p>
<p class="p2">Just as I’m about to punch Starr in the nuts to defend myself and send him flying off me, the front door busts open—honestly, it almost flies off its hinges and snaps in two—and Tool comes to my rescue. He crosses the room with superhuman speed like Flash, pulls Starr off me, and tosses the man to the living room floor.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Bump!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Thud!</span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">Crack!</span></p>
<p class="p2">Opportunity knocks. Starr conks his head off the leg of an end table. The wrench I borrow from Tool tumbles off the table and falls. It hits Starr in the left temple. I’m sure he sees stars, birds, planets, go-go dancers, and whatnots. He mumbles something, holds his head. The guy can barely stand, but he does. And he finds the strength to crawl to my front door, attempts his exit, and prattles things over his right shoulder like: “Who’s Superman?…Where’d Joe Strong come from?…What happened?…I only wanted to get inside your asshole like old times, Lance. You were always a prude. A fucking prude. Jesus Christ, what’s your problem?”</p>
<p class="p2">“You okay?” Tool leans over me and grazes my mouth and chin with three fingertips.</p>
<p class="p2">Tool’s touch feels amazing. Like cherry pie sweetness on one’s tongue. Like knee-reaching daisies against your bare legs in a summertime field. The golden sunshine after the first day of a long and cold winter. I nod, try to smile, honestly can’t, but find the strength to whisper, “I’m good.”</p>
<p class="p2">Splayed on the floor, Starr yells by the front door, “Fuck you both!”</p>
<p class="p2">“Perfect. I’m glad you’re good,” Tool says. He rubs my lips with a stray fingertip, two fingertips. The smile he shares with me warms my soul and aligns the planets. It’s a smile that can calm the seas and balance the Earth’s ecosystem. “Don’t move. I’ll be back in a second.”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool crosses the living room and grabs my ex by his arms, lifts him off the floor, and drags him outside into the early evening. I’m sure he threatens Starr, tells him to stay away from me, never to “get inside me again,” and informs him to drive away from Brecker Street as quickly as he arrived before the cops are called. Or something similar. Case closed.</p>
<p class="p2">And off Starr goes, returning to whatever sewer he crawled out of. Gone. For. Good.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Eventually Tool comes back into the house, steps up to me, stares down at me, unintentionally flexes his muscles for me, proves that he’s all man, and asks, “Are you sure you’re okay, Lance?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Better now. Thanks for saving me. The guy is dangerous. Always was.”</p>
<p class="p2">“An ex of yours?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes. Ricky Starr. He uses too many drugs. He’s high, and horrible. This is how he was when we were a couple for five months.”</p>
<p class="p2">He huffs above me, which is about as sexy as my mind can process, and he confesses, “I was working on the Nova and heard you yelling. I realized you were in trouble. Then I came running. You’re safe now. No need to worry.” He rubs my cheek with fingertips and grazes its blond, post-five-o’clock scruff. “I thought he was going to kill you when I burst inside.”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s violent when he’s high. Starr definitely has a few problems. He needs to get help. Unfortunately, he hasn’t found it yet. I can’t tell you how many times he’s been to rehab and special groups to get him on the right track. He’s an addict though, and he doesn’t want to help himself.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No man needs to be treated the way he was treating you. Your living room window is open. I heard what was happening. Plain as day. The guy was abusive. I wasn’t about to allow him to do that to you a second longer.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Thanks again,” I tell him. “I’m glad you were looking out for me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What are friends for? I’m sorry you had to go through that.” He slightly bends over and brushes blond hair out of my eyes; always so touchy-feely, not that I mind. I feel safe with him, protected, and a warmness floods through me. I’ve never felt this way with any other man. Not once. There’s something about Tool that I find noble and charming, like he’s from Camelot, or someone with special powers.</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, “Starr’s overdosed three times. Truth said, he’s failing himself. The system’s tried to help him out the best way it can. Unfortunately, I’ve been caught in his radar a few times like this evening. I was glad you were around to help me. God only knows what he would have done if you weren’t next door and my living room window wasn’t open. He can throw a nasty punch and get what he wants. I’ve been on the other side of his anger numerous times.”</p>
<p class="p2">He gently pulls me up and off the sofa as if I’m a bag of feathers or powdered sugar. Our chests cling and glide together. Our mouths almost meet, aligning. Our hidden cocks touch, but only by accident. None of these actions stop the flighty warmth of bumblebees that zoom and twirl within my chest. He admits, “I promise to help when I can. We’re friends now.”</p>
<p class="p2">I think he’s going to kiss me and my lips semi-part, but he doesn’t. Instead, he breathes on my face (warm, smooth, soft, sweet), stares at me and takes in every wrinkle, curve, pimple, and dent on my face. How disappointing that the kiss doesn’t happen. The kiss should happen. Damn. What a loss. A total upset. But I still enjoy being next to him, touching him.</p>
<p class="p2">I smell pizza on his breath: cheese, pepperoni, sausage, onion, peppers. He smells delicious, completely edible. One of his hands is snug against the back of my head. His other hand is placed along the curve of my spine. I find it comfortable here. It’s like we’re dancing, but we’re not. Yet something keeps us entwined, meshed together. I wonder…I wonder if this is how he makes love to a man.</p>
<p class="p2">He smiles and adds, “I’m just glad you’re okay. I really wasn’t sure what was going on over here. I just sensed danger.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And you went into hero mode, which I appreciate. I’m better now…Much better. So thanks.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It makes me happy if you want to know the truth. I don’t want bad things to happen to you, Lance. I don’t mind keeping tabs on you.” These comments might come across as creepy to some, but they don’t to me. I’m cool with what he says, calm, and rather relish his attention.</p>
<p class="p2">Before I can add something to the conversation, possibly making a fool of myself, time stops. We simply become lost in each other’s eyes and hypnotized by the moment in my living room. Connected by some rudimentary force that maybe neither of us understands. If he’s going to kiss me, it should probably happen now, by free will, an understanding devised by our hearts, before it’s too late, and before time begins again. There’s no reason to wait a second longer. Stillness can sometimes never be found again, remain forever misplaced.</p>
<p class="p2">He comes to, blinks a few times, and stammers, “I…I have pizza and beer at the garage. Do you want to come over and kill some with me? Take a load off with me. We can talk about Starr and other things. What do you say? Be a bro with me and relax. Chill.”</p>
<p class="p2">I feel his palm and fingers on my back as is it travels to the base of my spine. It lingers there, stops above my rump, and it causes the shivers of warm heat to rise to the perspiration-covered rear of my neck. I don’t realize at this time—later it comes to me, when I think over this confused and bubbly moment, rehashing this connection—but our bare pecs touch, as well as our stomachs and somewhat hard cocks. There is very little, if any, space between our torsos. Our bodies are temporarily sealed together, amalgamated. I literally shudder against him, share a full-fledged smile, feel heat melt my skin away, boil between my legs, feel as if my pecs will pop, and reply, “I’d like that. Lead me astray.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“It was a long five months with Ricky,” I tell Tool, sitting in the chair across from him at the rear of his uncle’s dingy garage. Most of the pizza and six-pack of an IPA are gone. “I shouldn’t have gotten involved with him, but he seduced me. The guy knows how to talk his men into bed, a shower, or against a wall. He’s very smooth when he’s not high. A total charmer, and I fell for his sexual gig.”</p>
<p class="p2">“When did you learn he was doing drugs?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Right from the start. I found them in his kitchen. He had a flat in South Side, near the Ohio River. I think he purposely left them out for me to find, thinking I would use them. I’ve never been one to use drugs, except for pot.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Pills?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Pills. Powder. Liquids. Whatever he could find. That’s what he used, and still does.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Shit. He has it bad.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Always does. Always will. Starr will probably die using drugs. It’s an unfortunate truth.”</p>
<p class="p2">“How many times did he rough you up?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Twice. Seven times. A dozen or more. I can’t even give you a number. Usually he was high all the time and passed out somewhere. Most of the time he wasn’t even home, hooked on something with his friends, lost in the city somewhere. I didn’t know where he was.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sounds damaging for the both of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It was terrifying some days. He had the tools to get clean and chose not to use them. The addict in him was, and is today, too strong. So I got out. I couldn’t have his problem become my problem, because I realized I couldn’t help him. Starr didn’t want to help himself, so how could I help him?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Makes sense. A lot of friends and lovers to addicts go through the same thing. Relationships fall apart all the time.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’m just glad it’s over with. This evening was a rare event. I’m sure it will happen again, but not for a long time. I’m not worried about it, to tell you the truth. Honestly, Starr will probably overdose and kill himself one of these days. You and I can’t stop him from doing that. He’s a train on a mission to derail. Some addicts are like this and…”</p>
<p class="p2">We talk for the next few hours, close to midnight. Maybe even longer. We drink all the beer and eat all the pizza. And he plays with my leg and lightly flirts with me. We don’t kiss. We don’t hug. But we do talk a lot, and laugh. And our friendship grows, matching my attraction to him.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">I get this crazy idea, half out of my mind. As May progresses I get online and study tools. I make a list and start to borrow a variety of tools from the stud next door just to see and spend more time with him. Of course, I <span class="t6">don’t</span> need the tools. Why would I? I’m not Jesus and intend to build things. I’m not part of the public works for the city.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the flat-headed screwdriver.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the sixteen-ounce Fiberglass professional rip hammer.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the curved, jaw locking set of pliers.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the channel locks.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the roll of silver duct tape.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the mini-pick and hook set.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the C-clamp.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the three-way tacker staple gun.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the eight-inch magnetic torpedo level angle finder.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the seven-inch long wood chisel set with its PVC handle.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the mini-folding lock-back utility knife.</p>
<p class="p2">Not the twelve-inch hacksaw.</p>
<p class="p2">And the list goes on and on of the tools I borrow from Tool.</p>
<p class="p2">It’s so nice to see him. Always. Always.</p>
<p class="p2">As for the tools…They’re in a mismanaged pile on the living room floor next to the sofa. Told you I don’t need them.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus plays his dragon and knight video game again and goes on a rant. He says over his right shoulder at me, “You’re falling for Tool, Lance. I’m telling you as your closest friend…Do. Not. Fall. For. Him. He’ll hurt you. Every guy has hurt you. You’re not meant to fall for a man. Never. At least not in this lifetime. And certainly not for Tool. Don’t follow your heart, and mind, and cock. Run. Run as fast as you can. Stop the bullshit now. Just stop it regarding Tool. Give all the tools back. Summer is going to end. His uncle is going to have the operation and he will be able to see again. And before you know it, Tool will be back in Phoenix and his flat again. That’s going to leave you with a hard dick and a broken heart. So listen to me. Drop him.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I can’t help what’s happening. My heart wants what it wants.”</p>
<p class="p2">I study more tools on my phone to borrow: a stainless-steel putty knife, an oil-free pancake air compressor, a three-inch magnetic bit holder, a six-inch stainless-steel taping knife, a five-in-one painter’s tool, a 1500-watt temperature heat gun, a one-inch hex chisel set for a demolition hammer.</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus controls a character who attempts to slay a dragon my flat-screen. He says to me, “You’re making the biggest mistake of your life. A fatal judgment on your part. Death by your dick-craving. Listen to me and get out while you can.”</p>
<p class="p2">I snip at him, “Says the man who hasn’t had a long-term relationship since 1999.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I don’t want a long-term relationship anytime soon. I’m a man-hopper. I like to go from one dick to the next. There’s no reason to settle down yet. I’ve got a lot of singlehood left in me. I travel too much to settle down. I work too hard. Plus, I play too many video games to keep up a conversation with a man. Call me selfish, but at least I know who I am and what I want.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re a whore, Marcus. You’re a dick-whore. You sleep with three men when you leave town. I know this because you tell me.”</p>
<p class="p2">I hear a fire-breathing dragon roar, and his character, Gridiron, scream on my flat-screen. “Fuck!” Marcus yells as he dies. He tosses the remote to the floor. “This dragon’s a fucking dick.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh.</p>
<p class="p2">He pouts. “I like being a whore. What can I say? I like dick.” He shrugs.</p>
<p class="p2">“And I like the tool next door.”</p>
<p class="p2">It’s a typical bestie time with Marcus. No surprise.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">It’s the end of May, after five in the evening. It feels like the sun accosts Earth, gobbling it up, specifically Pittsburgh. I’m talking dripping-wet hot. It’s maybe why Tool shows up in a pair of skimpy running shorts that look like he dug them out of a chest from 1988: red-and-white striped with curved bottoms. The gym shorts leave nothing to my imagination, outlining his package. Sweat decorates his shoulders, pecs, and tight navel. The droplets hang on his pert nipples. A smile lingers on his handsome face. He says, “I have cold beer and pizza in the garage. Do you want to join me?”</p>
<p class="p2">I think he sees the vast pile of tools over my left shoulder on the floor, but he doesn’t. Maybe he’s checking out my blond-furry chest, its hard nipples, and drops his stare to my chiseled thighs. I’m not sure, but hope so. “That’s nice of you. Anything I can bring?”</p>
<p class="p2">“A lighter or matches for a smoke.” He reaches forward and drags two fingertips around my navel, chuckles. “But only if you want to smoke.”</p>
<p class="p2">I tell myself that he adds: <span class="t6">Or other things, Lance. I’m up for whatever you’re up for, guy.</span></p>
<p class="p2">He winks at me. I’m honestly not sure what the wink means, but I’m not a fool and know it’s personal and maybe he wants to kiss me or touch my thigh again.</p>
<p class="p2">“Sure…Yeah. I’ll bring a lighter,” I tell him. I giggle like a high school kid who has one thing on his mind: getting easy with the star quarterback. Wrestling tongues with him. Just as he probably wants to wrestle tongues with me. Or something more.</p>
<p class="p2">Shame on me.</p>
<p class="p2">And shame on him.</p>
<p class="p2">We’re such bad influences on each other.</p>
<p class="p2">I stand dumbfounded in my living room and think: Why does he make me act like I’m eighteen instead of thirty-four? What kind of game are we playing? Why are we behaving immaturely? Tactics like these are for kids. We’re adults. We honestly don’t have time for this bullshit. We’re men. <span class="t6">Men</span>.</p>
<p class="p2">“See you in a few,” he says, and off he goes.</p>
<p class="p2">I can’t help myself and watch his tight back and shoulders. I study his ass twitch left and right in the clinging shorts. Damn, I’m such a perv. And damn, I want him. For maybe all the wrong reasons: selfishly and sexually.</p>
<p class="p2">I’m a dick-whore like Marcus. Yes, I am. We’re twins.</p>
<p class="p2">No. Maybe not. I might have more feelings for the garage guy next door than just an evening fuck. I feel connected to him, and I’m interested in everything he has to say. I can listen to him for hours. I feel as if I’m more than friends with him, whether he knows this or not. I’m hooked on him, obsessed, challenged by him, desiring him, infatuated with the man. We decide on who we want to be with. Tool is my pick. All that I want. My simple pleasure. Mine.</p>
<p class="p2">I just might like him a little too much.</p>
<p class="p2">A reachable liking.</p>
<p class="p2">Good for me.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">In the rear of his garage we drink beer, eat pizza, and smoke sticks of Mary with the best of them. I become twenty again, or younger. Hot, horny, and buzzed, we giggle like young men. Does Tool see the semi-boner between my legs as I sit across from him as we talk for the next two hours about his life in Phoenix: the dry desert, cacti, its Native American culture, the Salt River Valley, and pioneer villages. Does he realize how turned on I am by him? Does he know I can listen to him for hours, immersed in his every word, hypnotized by him, whatever he tells me, lost in his voice and tone?</p>
<p class="p2">We talk about other things: my boring job; his obsession with football; how I’ve been to Europe three times and loved it; how he used to be an amateur wrestler; my lack of creativity; his ambition to lift weights more and beef up his arms; my new liking with Lizzo’s music; his liking for Tom Hardy’s body, minus the tattoos. And our conversation continues and continues and continues until…</p>
<p class="p2">“Hello?…Hello?” a female calls outside the garage. The woman sounds familiar, but I can’t put a face to her, or recognize the glimpse of her curvy frame. I’ve heard her voice before but I just can’t place her. “Mike, are you in there?” She taps on part of the Nova’s body: knuckles meet metal three times. <span class="t6">Tap. Tap. Tap.</span></p>
<p class="p2">“Mike? Sweetie, are you hiding from me? Are you in there, sweetie?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’m back here, Honey!” Tool calls out.</p>
<p class="p2">Honey Hertzer. Of course this is who visits. Our neighbor who lives across the street from the pedophile, Pastor Bob. She finds her way into the garage. There’s very limited light inside the garage and Honey becomes a tall, big-boobed shadow in a pair of stilettos as she closes in on us. She has her blonde hair pulled up into pigtails and she sports Daisy Dukes and a snug, light-colored half-tank, which shows off her flat tummy. A diamond shines in her navel. She giggles, “There are probably a million little spiders that will bite me in here. I’m a damsel in distress. How ghastly. How dreadful. A big, muscle-man like you, Mike, needs to protect me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’ll be fine, Honey. Come on back.”</p>
<p class="p2">Once she reaches our twosome, she leans over, nuzzles her hefty breasts in Tool’s face, and kisses the top of his head. “Sweetie, how are you? I haven’t seen you in the last few days. Tell me everything is fine.” When she pulls her girlie parts away from his face, she applies a kiss to his left cheek, then his right cheek. She’s very handsy, just like Tool. She finds one of his massive pecs with a hand and gives it a firm squeeze. “So well-built. So meaty. I could just eat and eat and eat you up. Yum and yummy. The things I want to do to you, sweetie.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I was just having a pizza and beer with my neighbor. You know Lance Baye, right?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Of course. Of course.” She waves a hand at me, disregarding my presence, ignoring me. Lack of My Presence 101 in action. “We’ve met a few times. The homosexual on the block.” She giggles rather rudely, her tone losing excitement. “Every city street has one. Unlike you, Mike, he does nothing for me. I’ve never been into queens. Their beef just doesn’t mix well with my body parts.”</p>
<p class="p2">She makes a <span class="t6">tee-hee</span> sound that causes me to roll my eyes. I’m flabbergasted and shake my head. I swallow a hostile reply. Tool makes wide eye contact with me. Maybe he’s just as confused and irritated by her as I am. Or maybe he’s surprised by her insipid chatter; I’m not sure. He doesn’t stay quiet, though, and tells her, “Honey, that wasn’t very nice to say about Lance.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What?” she says. “The truth? He likes dick. He can’t do anything for me, sweetie. We know that.” She rolls her busy hand down the center of his chest, between his legs, and grabs the mound of his beef, provides it with a squeeze, two squeezes, and three squeezes. “Oh my. You are quite the man. Such bounty I’ve found. What a meat-man you are. Honey likes. Yum. Yummy. And yummer.”</p>
<p class="p2">Tool jumps where he sits, and laughs.</p>
<p class="p2">She says, “It’s time to make you hard and happy, sweetie. Honey wants a taste of your ruggedness. Honey needs you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I’ve seen and heard enough. It’s time to leave. There is no reason for me to stick around a second longer. I get what’s going on between the two of them. <span class="t6">Wink. Wink. </span>Boy meets girl. Big-boobed girl hits on tool-boy. Girl does boy. I get it. I’m not a fool. I’ve seen it a million times before. Who hasn’t? It’s in every relationship handbook between men and women that’s ever been written.</p>
<p class="p2">Politely, I tell them both, “I really have to go. Goodbye,” and I slip away.</p>
<p class="p2">Honey makes a <span class="t6">tsk</span> sound.</p>
<p class="p2">“Lance…Wait,” Tool calls out to me.</p>
<p class="p2">“Oh, sweetie, let the fag go. He has nothing to offer us. Let him go find a dick somewhere. You have me. And I have you.”</p>
<p class="p2">I look over my shoulder at these comments. I honestly don’t want to see what I do: Honey on Tool’s lap. She has her half-tank pulled up and her breasts are exposed, nipple-hard. She attempts to cover Tool’s face with her breasts and says, “Honey wants you to properly lick these. Have at them.”</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">On my short walk home I call myself a stupid fool under my breath. Frustrated, touched by the moonlight, I add, “You never had a chance with Tool. Never. Of course you’re a stupid fool, Sire-Lance-A-Pot. Marcus was right.”</p>
<p class="p2">My bestie’s words surface inside my head: <span class="t6">Do. Not. Fall. For. Him. He’ll hurt you. Every guy has hurt you. You’re not meant to fall for a guy. Never. At least not in this lifetime. Don’t follow your heart, and mind, and cock. Run. Run as fast as you can. Stop the bullshit now. Just stop it.</span></p>
<p class="p2">Reality is sometimes easier to understand in its cruel beauty. I know this first-hand now. I feel it. The sting is tough to handle. The burning saliva it offers is steaming hot. Undeniable pain. Grief of sorts hits me. Death at my center. Breathlessness in my lungs. I no longer feel alive.</p>
<p class="p2">Once at home I close all the windows, pull all the blinds, and block out the city and the rest of the world, particularly what’s happening next door. I put on the air conditioner for the first time this season and watch TV until I fall asleep on the sofa. I don’t dream of Tool or Honey or a vintage Nova that needs repairs. I don’t think about tools or pizza or beer. I don’t imagine men smoking pot together or fingertips touching a thigh. Sleep finds me. Hard and long sleep. I’m alone. My days from now on will always be like this. Always.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">It’s the next day. Saturday, May 29. Memorial Day weekend. I have a three-day weekend off from work. Rain beats down from the gray heavens and the day becomes soggy. Not that I mind, since I’ve always loved the rain. Besides, every man needs some soggy in his life, right? Not a lot, just some. I spend the morning reading the latest Robert Riley mystery called <span class="t6">Mischief Challenged</span> when the front doorbell rings on my quiet saltbox. Still seated, I set the hardback aside and look up, across the room. Tool stands at the screen door in too many clothes: snug jeans that outline his manly package, a wet T-shirt is like plastic wrap on his chest, and Adidas running shoes.</p>
<p class="p2">He smiles.</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t, still affected from the night before in his uncle’s garage and the reality that he has a <span class="t6">thing</span> going on with Honey Hertzer. I’m not exactly what their relationship entails, but I know I don’t like it, and don’t want to be in the mix of it. I just know I don’t trust Honey. So I’d rather break off whatever I have with Tool and slide back into my still life without him. Case closed. Or in this case: close the living door and window, pull the blind down on the window, and forget that he exists.</p>
<p class="p2">He doesn’t say, “Hello,” through the screen door. Instead, he says, “I need a tool from you, Lance.” He stutters: “A screwdriver…A hammer…Something…I see my pile of tools on the floor next to the end table behind you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You have a bunch of tools in your shed, Mike. You can use one of them. I don’t have any to lend out to you today. Go away.”</p>
<p class="p2">I go to the door and begin to block him out of my world forever. I’m just about to close the door on his face and wet-sleek-muscled frame when he says, “Don’t close the door on me. Fuck the tools, Lance. I think we need to get to the point and talk about last night. That visit Honey made. You’re totally reading into it wrong.”</p>
<p class="p2">I push the screen door fully open and don’t move. I look at his wet chest—<span class="t6">no</span>, I can’t prevent his good looks from drawing me in. Forget the hardback novel and my day off reading and relaxing. A tempered and heated day with a sexy Tool is the best day ever! Nervously, I bite my lower lip and eventually find the courage to say to him, “Honey was grabbing your dick and had her breasts in your face. I don’t think I’m reading anything wrong about last night. It’s obvious the two of you have messed around. You’ve fucked her once and you were going to fuck her again, Mike. I don’t want to get involved in that. You like her. She likes you. It’s a match made in straight heaven. I saw what I saw.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Wrong,” he says, hanging his head low. “I never had sex with her. Never. She doesn’t have the tools I want or like.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Could have fooled me. She was on your lap and had her tank pulled up. Her breasts were in your face. I saw everything I needed to see when I was leaving. The two of you are clearly a couple. You obviously have a sex-gig with her going on, or whatever you want to call it.”</p>
<p class="p2">He sighs, lifts his head, and shakes it. Brown, wet strings of hair hang over his left eye. “See, that’s the thing. You’re wrong. We’re. Not. Lovers. I’ve never diddled Honey. No way. You didn’t see anything real at all last night. Honey and I are not a couple. Let me make this clear to you, Lance Baye…We’re not a thing or lovers. She threw herself at me and…and things got a little crazy when you were there. If you stuck around for a few minutes longer you could have seen the ridiculousness that followed. The woman tried to take advantage of me. I could have called the cops on her, but didn’t. I wasn’t physically forceful with her, but did tell her to stop what she was doing. I told her nothing was going to happen between us and…”</p>
<p class="p2">I let him inside, out of the rain. Face to face on the small, rectangular shag rug next to the door, he stares deep into my eyes. He doesn’t touch me, keeping his distance, respecting my space. I’m too transfixed by his stare to admire his wet handsomeness. Instead, I take in every word he says to me: “Honey was looking for something I couldn’t give her…Something I <span class="t6">wasn’t</span> about to give her. Never. She had never been so forward with me like that before. Starr did the same thing to you the other week. Remember? He pushed himself on you and I came to your rescue. Well, Honey did the same thing to me last night, but in a different way.”</p>
<p class="p2">He pauses, wipes rainwater away from his eyes and cheeks. He pushes the strand of wet, brown hair away from his left eye. “It’s not what you think it is between Honey and me. Honestly, it’s not. She’s the neighborhood floozy, looking for the next guy to sleep with. I’m just the newest dick for her to ride. You know that. I know that. Everyone on this block knows it. And she’s not who I want to kiss, hold, or be romantic with. I’m not that kind of guy. I’m not a tool, even if people think I am. I have more integrity than that. I’m not easy like that, guy. Hell, I can’t even tell you the last time I’ve been intimate with, or attracted to someone. Honey does nothing for me. Nothing at all. That’s why I stopped her advancements last night, and told her to pull her tank down and cover her breasts. And then I told her nicely to please get off my lap, and that she had to leave. She wanted to know why. So I told her…I told her…I told her…”</p>
<p class="p2">“You told her what, Mike?…What did you tell her?” I ask him, still caught in his creamy brown eyes, listening to fresh thunder boom behind him in the distant heavens and echo lethargically over the neighborhood, above Brecker Street. Frustrated, nervous, half out of my mind, I reach forward and press a hand to his chest, between his firm and wet pecs. My pinkie finger grazes a nipple. Just right. My face moves closer to his face. My lips almost touch his quivering lips. And I whisper to him, repeating myself, “You told her what, Mike? Tell me. I want to know. What did you tell her?”</p>
<p class="p2">“That…that I think I’ve fallen in love you, Lance Baye, and you have the tools I want in a relationship, and you drive me sexually mad, and I can’t stop thinking about you, and…”</p>
<p class="p2">I pull him towards me by his wet T-shirt and kiss him. My world spins. What happens? Everything scientific that I can’t begin to understand, but my heart feels otherwise. The kiss is: the catena effect, a gravitational pull, a conjunction, an accretion, a synchronous rotation, resonance, and a quadrature. I can barely move, motionless in his arms. Paralyzed. His. Only his.</p>
<p class="p2">And he kisses me in return: powerfully, open-mouthed, without any pulling back whatsoever. He <span class="t6">wants</span> to be kissed, hungry for me, obviously into me, and seals our frames, causing a relentless collision of bodies.</p>
<p class="p2">We tangle together as lightning and thunder dance in a magnificent storm above us in the darkening and threatening clouds. We become one, locking our arms and chests tightly together for the very first time, unable to pull out of this unbreakable, heated, and steamy embrace. Our hearts beat together as we kiss and hold each other next to the screen door. The temperature rises in my saltbox.</p>
<p class="p2">When the kiss ends, I see that he is excited, steel-hard, proof that he truly isn’t into Honey Hertzer. He pants like an animal. His chest rises and falls, unstoppable. He steps deeper into my home, pushing me backwards with one hand, and sweeping the door closed behind with his other hand. He has <span class="t6">my</span> spittle on his lower lip from our kissing-lust: a mix of tongues and lips. Hunger beads in his eyes, turning them glossy-brown as he continues to push me backwards, near the sofa. And he growls, “We’re more than friends now. You know this. I know this. We’re lovers. And I’m going to have you, Lance. All of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">At the sofa, I’m abruptly spun around and my shorts are dropped to my ankles. I hear his belt buckle on his jeans being loosened, jingling. I feel his lips against my spine, from my neck down to my bottom…and…and…</p>
<p class="p2">There’s very little foreplay between us, I confess, not that I mind or it matters. There are no licks to pecs or nipples. There is no kissing against navels or abdominals. There are no tongue-laps to arched necks. There are no strong sniffs to V-patches of pubic hairs or blowjobs. We do not manhandle each other’s tools with long and smooth strokes. Inner thighs are not swabbed with wet tongues. Nor are they bitten. Nothing like this happens. Rather, Mike gets down to business after licking my spine and bottom. Positioned behind me, the length of his hard dick rubs against my ass-slit once, twice, and three times. And he asks me, “Do you want me inside you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes,” I practically beg for his firm tool to punch its way between my ass-orbs. “Please.”</p>
<p class="p2">He finds a condom, rolls it down and over his joint, adds lube, and growls, “It might hurt. I can’t promise that it won’t. Something tells me you want it to hurt.”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t object. I won’t. I’m just about to tell him when it happens: one inch turns into six inches, thus seven as they enter me. It’s a relentless and brutish thrust that I’ve desired since he moved in next door. I buck forward because of the immediate and abrupt surprise and a grunt escapes both of us, but for different reasons; his because of pleasure, and mine because of the forceful pain.</p>
<p class="p2">“Christ!” exits my throat and lips. “It does hurt.”</p>
<p class="p2">His perspiration flings off his forehead and chest and burns against my spine. He says behind me, “Try to enjoy the ride,” and clamps his palms against my hips. Mike begins to ride my bottom slowly, faster, in and out. He becomes a pump behind me, overworked, non-stopping, and very much like a machine.</p>
<p class="p2">“Enjoying,” slips out of me, just as his dick does the same thing.</p>
<p class="p2">My bottom burns: I don’t mind; truth is, I find much pleasure from his speedy, chaotic, and hurtful action. I’m arched over and my head is literally pushed into the sofa’s cushions as he throttles himself inside me, pulls out, and throttles inside again and again. I can barely breathe, but manage. The stinging feels great; everything I want from him; everything that I’ve desired from the stud. I become one with him for ten, thirteen, seventeen minutes, connected the way I’ve always wanted to be connected to him (romantically, physically, emotionally, sexually), sealed together by our hearts and other devices. My ball sack swings to and fro: hastily, slapping against my thighs in frenzied motion, dripping with sweat.</p>
<p class="p2">“Mine,” he whispers. “I wasn’t going to let you get away from me. You’ve always been mine. I’ve been waiting for this since I first caught a view of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You had me from the start. Always. I wasn’t going anywhere.”</p>
<p class="p2">Hereafter, a wraparound occurs. I can’t remember the last time this has happened to me. His right hand lifts from my right hip and rolls down to my center and discovers my extension of hard meat. His fingers and palm wrap around the stick and he begins to milk the shaft up and down, which causes my balls to swing to and fro. In doing so, he calls down and over my back, “Taking care of you. Maybe we can come together.”</p>
<p class="p2">We…We…We move together; simpatico at its finest: I back into his tool and he rushes forward; I pump his right fist with my dick and he yanks on it numerous times, pleasuring me: tugging on the meat, squeezing its mass, rolling his appendages against the beef’s hard-lined veins. We gyrate and move and glide and swing together, just as I always thought we would. How perfectly combined. How breathtaking, maddening, pulverizing, blissful, and just right.</p>
<p class="p2">“Smooth and tight,” he whispers behind me. “This is what I’ve waited for, Lance.”</p>
<p class="p2">As heat rises inside my living room and the storm outside intensifies, I can’t breathe with my head <span class="t6">pushed…pushed…pushed…</span>into the puffy cushions. Honestly, I don’t mind—I <span class="t6">want</span> this to occur. Elation surfaces throughout my entire body. Euphoria. Bliss encompasses me as we sexually communicate and become one—us.</p>
<p class="p2">“Exploding,” he informs me. “Can’t hold it in. Come with me. Come with me now.”</p>
<p class="p2">Mike doesn’t have to tell me twice as he continues to manhandle the flag between my legs. Jolts of electricity zigzag through my core as he does some hardcore action on my bottom. Fire burns me from the inside out. Like the lover behind me, I can no longer hold my own load and…</p>
<p class="p2">“Shooting,” I moan, and douse the sofa with my white and creamy seed, decorating the material: splotches and strings and dots and zigzags; I’m a lover-artist at work.</p>
<p class="p2">“Coming…inside you, man. Only you. Only you,” he growls behind me, banging me one last time, pressing his pelvic bone to my bottom, holding it there, emptying his cargo inside the plastic that separates us. Unloading. Coming. Firing. Discharging.</p>
<p class="p2">Depleted.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">After our round of heated sexual exploration, we sit on the living room floor in front of the sofa and kiss. Naked, our arms entangle. One of his legs slides over mine, affectionately. We huff and puff. As our mouths connect, the storm outside rumbles and roars and cracks, growing into an angry fit. Both of us stink of sweat and man-jack-goo, but neither of us cares as we continue to kiss and hug.</p>
<p class="p2">When our kissing ends, he pulls away from me and says, “You blind me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I tend to do this to men. You’ll get dizzy and sick and long for my love more and more,” I tell him.</p>
<p class="p2">He chuckles. “I won’t be going back to Phoenix unless you come with me. You’ve caught me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I expected this to happen.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Arrogance is sexy on you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re sexy on me…and inside me.”</p>
<p class="p2">He kisses me again: sweetly, bites at my lower lip, slides his tongue inside my mouth. When the kiss ends, he says, “I do love you, Lance. I wasn’t just telling you that to push your head into the sofa. My heart is right here if you want it.”</p>
<p class="p2">I don’t have to think about his statement. Not for a second, or longer. A smile comes to my face. My heart skips a beat. My chest trembles like the storm outside. I found him, and intend to keep him in my life. He’s not going anywhere if it’s up to me. I reply, “I want it, Mike. All of it. All of you.”</p>
<p class="p2">Thus, the reason we kiss again, and begin another stormy session of lovemaking with our tools on the living room floor, during the beating storm and our continuous heartbeats.</p>
<p class="p3">* * * *</p>
<p class="p2">“You should be ashamed of yourself. It smells like sex in here,” Marcus tells me the following day. He wants to stick around at my place and play his dragon/knight video game. I don’t mind since I’m getting ready to leave. Mike and I are planning to have lunch down by The Point and three rivers. It’s almost noon. I have just climbed out of the shower after spending the night and morning with Tool. He asks, “Did he really bang you over the sofa?”</p>
<p class="p2">I won’t lie, and blush. “He did take advantage of me, but I wanted him to. Truth said, it was more like <span class="t6">in</span> the sofa.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What do you mean by that?”</p>
<p class="p2">I tell him, sparing no detail.</p>
<p class="p2">“He really had your head buried in the cushions?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He did.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So he is a tool?”</p>
<p class="p2">“He’s not. Really, he’s not. There’s so much more to him. I found out he reads Robert Riley books, he knows trigonometry, and he has a degree in chemistry. Just because he has a lot of muscle doesn’t mean he’s a tool.”</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus laughs at me. “Sounds like you enjoyed his tool three times since yesterday.”</p>
<p class="p2">I laugh. “I did. His libido is unstoppable. A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do. He’s a dragon and I’m his slayer.”</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus rolls his eyes at me. “Is he really nine inches long?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes.”‘</p>
<p class="p2">“And two inches thick?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes. He’s huge. It hurt like a motherfucker, but I loved every second of it.”</p>
<p class="p2">“No wonder you wanted him to fuck you. Hell, I want him to fuck me.”</p>
<p class="p2">I roll my eyes and warn him, “Find your own man. Leave Mike alone. He’s mine.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re calling him Mike now?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because that’s his name.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because he’s had his huge dick in you three times? How appropriate.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Stop,” I say to him. “You’re awful.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And funny.” He turns on his knight/dragon game, settles in front of the flat-screen. “Did you tell him you love him?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I did.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Before or after he fucked you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Does it matter?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Of course it does.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It was before. What’s the difference?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Because if you told him afterwards, it’s just corny and it’s like saying thank you for banging me with my head in the sofa, pal. But if it was before, then it’s like saying, this is real, and serious. It’s like saying I want to be your lover and boyfriend.”</p>
<p class="p2">“So it’s serious.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Sounds like it.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Do you think it’s still a mistake to be with him?” I ask, dripping wet, needing to get ready to meet Mike next door in less than five minutes.</p>
<p class="p2">Marcus looks up at me and smiles. He must see the concern on my face because he stands, walks to me, and collects my cheeks in his palms. He rubs his nose against my nose. “What do you think?”</p>
<p class="p2">“I think our walls have been torn down and we’re both into each other. I think we’re still getting to know each other and he has already fallen in love with me, and vice versa. I know I like spending time with him, and everything about him. And he did tell me that he doesn’t intend to move back to Phoenix. That’s how hooked he is on me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Then it sounds like you have your answer, Lance. You make a good case. You have a boyfriend on your hands. He’s your lover. And you might have a match made in heaven with this guy. He could end up being your husband someday.”</p>
<p class="p2">“He might,” I tell him.</p>
<p class="p2">“Only time will tell,” he says, pulls away from me, and heads back to his game and the floor.</p>
<p class="p2">“True that. But it feels pretty solid, if you want me to be honest,” I say, smiling from ear to ear, feel an electric jump in my chest, and between my legs, and rush out of my house, toward a special someone who pulls at my heartstrings, and more…Someone who won’t get away from me, and will always be mine.</p>
<p class="p2"> </p>
<p class="p4">THE END</p>
<p class="p4"> </p>
</body>
</html>
2023-02-04 17:20:46 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-04 17:20:46 INFO  - Step 15 - I restart app
2023-02-04 17:21:12 INFO  - Step 16 - I open Books
2023-02-04 17:21:12 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:21:13 INFO  - Step 17 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-02-04 17:21:33 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:21:54 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-02-04 17:21:57 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-02-04 17:21:58 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:22:02 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:22:05 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:22:06 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:22:08 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:22:09 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:22:10 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-02-04 17:22:11 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-04 17:22:31 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-02-04 17:22:31 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@3f669a13
