2023-06-14 20:39:33 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-06-14 20:39:33 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-06-14 20:39:58 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-06-14 20:39:59 INFO  - Session id - fe44aae30aab35244f934479e128eeb4332e1829
2023-06-14 20:39:59 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-06-14 20:39:59 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:01 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-06-14 20:40:01 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-06-14 20:40:01 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:02 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-06-14 20:40:03 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-06-14 20:40:03 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-06-14 20:40:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-06-14 20:40:07 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:09 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-06-14 20:40:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:13 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:15 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-06-14 20:40:15 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:17 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:17 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:18 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:19 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-06-14 20:40:19 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: The Mystery of Mrs. Christie Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: Apples Never Fall Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - bookName: Godsgrave Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-06-14 20:40:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-06-14 20:40:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-06-14 20:40:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-06-14 20:40:23 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:40:29 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:40:30 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-06-14 20:40:51 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:40:52 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-06-14 20:40:52 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:41:13 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-06-14 20:41:34 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:41:35 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-06-14 20:41:35 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-06-14 20:41:35 INFO  - randomBookName: Raney
2023-06-14 20:41:36 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-06-14 20:41:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Raney'
2023-06-14 20:41:38 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-06-14 20:41:42 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-06-14 20:41:43 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:41:43 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:41:52 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-06-14 20:41:52 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:41:53 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:41:53 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-06-14 20:41:54 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:41:55 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-06-14 20:41:55 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-06-14 20:42:21 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-06-14 20:42:22 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:42:24 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-06-14 20:42:24 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:42:25 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-06-14 20:42:25 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:42:25 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-14 20:42:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:42:27 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Raney</title>
  <link href="../Styles/9781616202132.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
<p><a id="part01"></a></p>
  <h2 class="h2" id="part1"><a id="page_1"></a>PART ONE<br />
  <br />
  <em>Blood Kin</em></h2>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_2"></a></p>

  <p class="center"><a id="page_3"></a>LISTRE, NORTH CAROLINA<br />
  APRIL 18, 1975</p>

  <p class="centert"><small>FROM THE</small> <em>Hansen County Pilot</em>:</p>

  <p class="noindent">BETHEL—Mr. and Mrs. Thurman A. Bell announce the engagement of their daughter, Raney, to Charles C. Shepherd of Atlanta, Georgia. Mr. Bell owns the Hope Road General Store and the family attends Bethel Baptist Church. Raney graduated from Chester F. Knowles High School where she was in the school band and various other activities. She attended Listre Community College.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles Shepherd, the son of Dr. and Mrs. William Shepherd of Atlanta, is the assistant librarian at Listre Community College. Dr. Shepherd is a college professor, while Mrs. Shepherd is a public school teacher.</p>

  <p class="indent">A June 7th wedding is planned at Bethel Baptist Church. A reception will follow in the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">The couple plans to honeymoon at Myrtle Beach and live in Listre at 209 Catawba Drive.</p>

  <h3 class="h3a" id="heading_id_2"><a id="page_4"></a>I</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We get married in two days: Charles and me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s parents are staying at the Ramada—wouldn’t stay with any of us—and today me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie ate lunch with Charles’s mother, Mrs. Shepherd. And found out that she’s, of all things, a vegetarian.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at the K and W. Mrs. Shepherd wanted to eat at some place we could sit down and order—like a restaurant—but Aunt Naomi strongly suggested the K and W. She said the K and W would be more reasonable and the line wouldn’t be long on a Thursday. So we ate at the K and W.</p>

  <p class="indent">I got meatloaf, Mama got meatloaf (they have unusually good meatloaf—not bready at all), Aunt Naomi got turkey, Aunt Flossie got roast beef, and Mrs. Shepherd, Mrs. Shepherd didn’t get any meat at all. She got the vegetable plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got seated Mama says, “I order the vegetable plate every once in a while myself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, did you get the vegetable plate?” says Aunt Naomi to Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I’ve stopped eating meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all looked at her.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got involved in a group in Atlanta which was putting together programs on simple living and after a few programs I became convinced that being a vegetarian—me, that is—made sense.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Somehow I thought people were <em>born</em> as vegetarians. I never thought about somebody just <em>changing over</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_5"></a>“What kind of group was that?” asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Several Episcopal women. I’m originally Methodist, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Naomi!” says this woman walking by holding her tray. “Good gracious, is this all your family?” Her husband went ahead and sat down about three tables over—picked a chair with arms.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It sure is,” says Aunt Naomi. “Let me introduce you. Opal Register, this is my sister-in-law, Doris Bell.” (That’s Mama.) “You know Doris, don’t you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, yes. I think we met in here one time. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is her daughter, Raney, who’s getting married Saturday.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mercy me,” says Mrs. Register. She had on big glasses with a chain, little brown curls on the top of her head, and too much lipstick. “You’re at the start of a wonderful journey, honey,” she says. “It was thirty-seven years for me and Carl the twenty-first of last month. I hope your journey is as happy and fulfilling as ours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Mrs. Millie Shepherd, the groom’s—groom-to-be’s—mother. She’s up from Atlanta, Georgia.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” says Mrs. Register.</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Flossie Purvis, Doris’s sister. And ya’ll, this is Opal and Carl Register,” said Aunt Naomi, pointing toward Mr. Register who had started eating over at his table. He smiled, with food in his mouth. You couldn’t see any though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” said Mrs. Register again. “You don’t know C. C. Lawrence, do you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think I do,” said Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“C. C. works at one of the big banks in Atlanta. He got a <a id="page_6"></a>law degree and a business degree—one right after the other. His mama and daddy didn’t think he’d ever finish—and them working at Liggett and Myers. He went—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Opal,” Mr. Register calls out. “Sit down and eat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, nice to have met you,” said Mrs. Register. “Good luck on that wonderful journey, honey,” she says to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Mrs. Register was out of hearing distance, Mama says, “Mr. Register just had a prostrate operation and I don’t think he’s recovered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Prostate,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is it?” says Mama. “Prostate? Oh. You know, I’ve always liked him better than her. She always makes so much out of every little thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The conversation went from the Registers to prostrate operations back around to eating meat.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” says Aunt Naomi, “once in a while I’ve gone without meat, but I got so weak I thought I’d pass out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, that happens a bit at first,” Mrs. Shepherd says. “But after a few days that usually goes away. It’s a matter of what you get used to, I think. The body adjusts.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d be afraid I couldn’t get enough proteins,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “There are many protein substitutes for meat. Beans—soybeans, for example—are excellent.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“My next door neighbor, Lillie Cox, brought me some hamburger with soybean in it,” said Aunt Naomi, “when I had the flu last winter, and it tasted like cardboard. She’s always trying out the latest thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I couldn’t do without my meat,” says Mama. She was fishing through her tossed salad for cucumber—and putting it on <a id="page_7"></a>her plate. “I’d be absolutely lost without sausage for breakfast. Cole’s sausage. The mild, not the hot. Do they have Cole’s in Atlanta?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so. I really don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you get the patties or the links?” Aunt Naomi asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“The patties—Thurman don’t like the links; they roll off his plate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed. Even Mrs. Shepherd, so Mama stretched it out. “Every time we go to Kiwanis for the pancake supper he’ll lose one or two links. Because of the way he eats his pancakes—pushes them all around in the syrup. Last time one rolled up under the edge of Sam Lockamy’s plate, and for a minute there we couldn’t find it. Then Sam swore it was his.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I guess you have less cholesterol if you don’t eat meat,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There are health advantages,” said Mrs. Shepherd. “And also our women’s group has been concentrating on how eating less meat can help curtail hunger in the third world.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“On another <em>planet</em>?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no. Developing nations,” says Mrs. Shepherd. She finished chewing and swallowed. “Developing nations.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I don’t understand,” says Aunt Naomi, “is that if they don’t eat their own cows, like in India, then why should we send them ours? They wouldn’t eat ours, would they? Or maybe they <em>would</em> eat American meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We wouldn’t send meat to India, of course; we’d send grain and other staple goods. The fewer cows we eat the less grain we’ll need to feed cows, so there will be a greater grain surplus.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_8"></a>Aunt Naomi blew her nose on this Kleenex she had been fumbling with. She had a cold. She can get more nose blows on one Kleenex than anybody I ever saw. She always ends up with this tiny corner which she slowly spreads out, then blows her nose into.</p>

  <p class="indent">We’d finished eating so I said, “Aunt Naomi, you get more nose blows out of one Kleenex than anybody I’ve ever seen in my life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I probably won’t be able to sing Sunday,” she said. She sings in the church choir. “This cold just drags on and on and on.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ain’t it nice the way Raney and Charles play music together,” says Mama to Mrs. Shepherd. I was relieved to get off the meat subject.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, it is,” says Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think it’s wonderful,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They sound real good together,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Music is what brought me and Charles together. He plays banjo and collects old songs from the mountains. When I sang for the faculty at the college Christmas dinner he was there—he’s the assistant librarian—and he came up afterward and complimented my singing. He was real nice about it. And has been ever since. Charles is the kind of person who is real natural around people—and is smart as he can be.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I met him again when I went to the library to check out a record. They have a good collection, thanks to Charles. One thing led to another and the first thing you know we’re playing music together. We’ve had three or four performances. Kiwanis and such. Charles calls them gigs.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles sent me a tape,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You two <a id="page_9"></a>sound really good together. You have a beautiful voice, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I thanked her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is learning to sing too. We harmonize on two or three songs. He’s improving gradually. He plays good banjo. He don’t <em>look</em> like a banjo picker, but he sounds good.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know what I’m going to do without Raney singing around the house, and helping out with Norris and Mary Faye,” says Mama, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mama, I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s a big gap between me and my little brother, Norris, and sister, Mary Faye. Norris is eight and Mary Faye is eleven. Mary Faye picks on Norris all the time, but sometimes he deserves it.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How many children do you have, Mrs. Shepherd?” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“One,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Please call me Millie,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “All of you,” she says, and smiles. “You too, Raney, if you’re comfortable with that. I have only one,” she says. “Charles is the only one.”</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_3">II</h3>

  <p class="noindent">You would think a man could get married without getting drunk, especially after I explained that nobody in my family drunk alcohol except Uncle Nate, who was in the Navy in World War II, but got burned in combat on over fifty percent <a id="page_10"></a>of his body, and caught pneumonia and had to be discharged from the Pacific. He had to stay in the hospital for three and a half months. Now he has asthma spells.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate comes to our house in a taxi at any hour of the day or night, drunk, cussing his former wife, who’s dead—Joanne. And when I say drunk, I mean so drunk he can’t get up the front steps without me and Mama and sometimes the taxi driver helping him. And smell?—Uncle Nate I’m talking about—whew. A sweat-whisky smell that lingers in the house as solid as flower smells at a funeral—lingers long after Mama’s undressed him, got him in the tub, and piled his clothes on the back porch. And the thing is, he don’t ever get asthma when he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye and Norris have to stand there in the middle of all that, being influenced in no telling what ways.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Uncle Nate’s sober he’s my favorite uncle. I love his stories about when he was growing up with Mama and Aunt Flossie and Uncle Norris (who lives in Charlotte) and their Uncle Pugg. And he always gives me presents and says I’m his favorite niece.</p>

  <p class="indent">He’s always lived with us and worked at Daddy’s store part time. His lung troubles make him disabled, so he gets a check every month from the government. They think he inhaled so much smoke he’ll never recover. The scars are mostly on his body under his clothes so you can’t ever see them except on his left wrist and under his left ear. He never talks about it except to Uncle Newton, who was in the war, too. Sometimes his asthma gets so bad he has to sit perfectly still for three or four hours. So he can’t get a job anywhere, of course—except helping Daddy out at the store. Daddy says he makes a big difference and is very dependable—unless he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_11"></a>I don’t know what Mama will do about getting him out of the taxi and up the steps since I’ll be living here in Listre. Mary Faye and Norris will have to help. But Mama hates for them to be exposed to such.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles <em>knew</em> all about Uncle Nate and how I—how my whole family—feels about drinking.</p>

  <p class="indent">So at the rehearsal Friday night everything was going fine except Mama caught Norris hiding in the baptism place and made him sit on the front row. She’d already caught him once. I told him the water would flow in there and drown him if he didn’t watch out. Mary Faye was one of my attendants and being as smart as she could be.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’m standing in the back of the church with Daddy and Flora, my cousin, who directed the wedding, and I notice that Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, from Maryland, who I had never met until that night, keeps going outside. And Charles keeps following him. Phil, Jim, Dale, and Crafton—my cousins—were of course staying in their places like they were supposed to. Flora gives me a little push and I start down the aisle with Daddy. Charles is standing with this red-faced grin. When Preacher Gordon says you may kiss the bride, I turned to Charles and there were these little red blood vessels in his left eye that looked like red thread and all of a sudden I caught a whiff of you-know-what. It hit me. It all suddenly fell together. I thought they had been going outside to <em>talk</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The thing you won’t believe is: Charles’s daddy looked lit too.</p>

  <p class="indent">I did not kiss Charles. I kept my lips clamped. I grabbed him by the arm and led him right up the aisle and out the front door. Madora Bryant, my maid of honor, and some of the other girls were clapping as hard as they could. They couldn’t <a id="page_12"></a>tell what was really happening. When I got him out on the front porch—right beside the bell rope—I said: (now I was really tore up) “Charles, I have told you for months about the condition Uncle Nate has put our family in with alcohol, and you promised me you would not have a bachelor party and get drunk and here you are, drunk, under the nose of Preacher Gordon, Mama, Daddy, Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and my bridesmaids and Mary Faye and Norris and I will never forget this as long as I live.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney,” he says, “first of all, I am not having a bachelor party, and second of all, I am not drunk. I am not doing anybody any harm. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not doing any harm? Charles, I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, Buddy drove all the way down here from Baltimore, Maryland, and he has one little pint of something in his car, and we were in the <em>war</em> together and if you will just relax. And he’s the <em>only</em> one of my close friends in the wedding. All these damn cousins of yours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, please do not start cussing right here on church property. And if you are mad about my cousins being in the wedding I would have appreciated you saying something about that before now—like while I was spending all my time getting this whole thing planned.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s daddy, Dr. Shepherd, walks up. I could not believe what was happening, yet I dared not make a scene in front of him. I was thinking that if Mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie found out about all this drinking I would die.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, honey,” Dr. Shepherd says, “you look adorable.” He’s a big man and wears those glasses without any rims—shaped <a id="page_13"></a>like stop signs. He’s a math professor, of all things. A doctor. And Mrs. Shepherd is a school teacher. They use these long words I know Mama and Daddy don’t know. And they should know Mama and Daddy don’t know them. But they’ll go on back down to Atlanta after the wedding and we won’t see them except maybe a few times a year. Charles says they belong to a country club and all that. What gets me is that Charles said he explained to them about us being Christians and not drinking which I didn’t even know we <em>had</em> to explain until Madora told me that Charles’s parents would probably be used to drinking spiked punch at weddings and what were we going to do?</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t thought about it. I’ve never been to a wedding where they drink liquor in the punch. I mean there’s usually a preacher at a wedding and it’s usually at a church. But Madora explained how rich people—or at least Episcopalians and Catholics and sometimes Methodists—will get married in church and then ride over to a country club or someplace where they all drink up a storm.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dr. Shepherd stands there kind of flushed and glassy-eyed and tells me how proud he is—and he laughs at everything he says, funny or not—and I’ll be durn if he didn’t reach up right then and there and pull the church bell rope and ring the bell. I could just see old Mrs. Bledsoe, down the road, figure it was not Friday night at all, but Wednesday night—prayer meeting night—instead, and get all upset and maybe grab <em>Mr</em>. Bledsoe, who can’t hear, and cart him off to a prayer meeting which don’t exist. Not to mention all the other people in hearing distance.</p>

  <p class="indent">The rehearsal dinner was in the education building around <a id="page_14"></a>behind the church. I walked down the church steps between Charles and his daddy—their arms locked through mine—not able to say a word, and hot behind my ears with embarrassment at the prospect of a scandal.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the education building there was Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—standing at the door, smiling.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Smooth as could be,” she said, and kissed Dr. Shepherd on the lips—right there in the door to the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">Inside, there were two long tables and a head table. Aunt Naomi was in charge. She had got Betty Winnberry to cater. Steaks. T-bone steaks. French fries. The works. I had hoped all along it wouldn’t be tacky—like paper tablecloths, which Aunt Naomi was talking about along at first. I’m certainly not going to be cow-tied to any fancy ways of the Shepherds, but I did want things to be proper for everybody concerned.</p>

  <p class="indent">On the tables were about twelve or thirteen red-checkered, overlapped tablecloths that Aunt Flossie had borrowed from Penny’s Grill (and had to wash and dry later that night in order to get them back to the grill in time for Penny to serve breakfast. They open at six <small>A.M</small>.). And over in the corner Mack Lumley was sitting on a bale of hay playing his guitar. He didn’t charge but ten dollars, and furnished the hay, too. Somebody suggested me and Charles sing, but I think singing at your own wedding wouldn’t be right.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie had put together the prettiest flower arrangement—right in the middle of the head table: roses, daisies, and Queen Anne’s lace, and pittosporum and nandina for greenery.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before supper, Charles and Buddy went out for you-know-what, I guess. I had to keep smiling and be as nice as I could to everybody. The supper <em>was</em> meaningful, but while I <a id="page_15"></a>was cutting a piece of T-bone steak I bent over to Charles and whispered: “Charles, I will never forget this.” But Charles just turned to Daddy and started talking about the Braves. They always talk about the Braves. As soon as they see one another they start talking about the Braves. I wanted to say, “Daddy, don’t you see what Charles is doing? How can you sit there and talk about the Braves while Charles is doing what he’s doing?” But I didn’t say anything. Lord knows, there was disturbance enough.</p>

  <p class="indent">I had spent all that time working out the arrangements and Charles wrote all the invitations by hand—he has this beautiful handwriting—and we had talked all about his new library job and our house and our future and how everything was going to work out, and he had been so good about running little errands. Then this.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is very intelligent, and good looking in his own way—his head is slightly large, but I think it just seems that way because his shoulders are narrow—and, oh, we had one or two little fusses getting ready for the wedding, but no more than you’d shake a stick at. And we’ve been playing music at different gatherings right along through all this—getting better and better and having lots of fun. Charles learns real fast and we like the same music mostly.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I end up sitting at my own wedding rehearsal dinner fussing at Charles for doing the one thing I was hoping against hope wouldn’t happen ever since Madora explained about how some people get drunk at weddings. We had talked about drinking several times, and I had this feeling of not being able to get a clear picture of how Charles felt. He talks a lot about “psychology.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_16"></a>The actual wedding itself went off without a hitch. It was the most wonderful day of my life. Charles was perfect. Dr. and Mrs. Shepherd were perfect. Mary Faye and Norris were perfect. Mama and Daddy were perfect. Mama wore a long dress—pink—and she was real pretty, except her hair-do was a little tight. Daddy looked the way he always does at church: out of place in a suit, and his head white where his hat goes, and his face red. (He <em>looks</em> like he has high blood pressure, but it’s normal and always has been.) Right before we walked down the aisle, he said, “Honey, I’m real happy for you. Charles is a good man.” His chin was quivering, and two tears rolled down his cheeks. He was holding my hand, which was something I don’t remember him doing since I was a little girl. Daddy don’t show much emotion.</p>

  <p class="indent">A bunch of people said it was the nicest wedding they had ever been to. I was just flushed throughout the whole thing. It went exactly according to plans. Charles was handsomer than I’ve ever seen him. The shoulders in his tux were padded.</p>

  <p class="indent">The wedding was fairly short and we all went straight to the reception in the education building <em>without</em> getting our pictures made, so people wouldn’t have to wait. Mama was real worried about us not getting a photographer, but Mack Lumley did it for only ten dollars over cost.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama and Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—cried several times each, and so did Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie, and two or three times Dr. Shepherd gave Millie a long hug right in front of everybody. Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, spent some time talking to Mary Faye and Norris. I thought that <a id="page_17"></a>was nice. Buddy and my cousins fixed up our car with tin cans and shaving cream; we changed clothes; Sylvia Curtis caught the bouquet; we ran to Charles’s Dodge Dart under all that rice, and headed for Myrtle Beach.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Now. The honeymoon. I do not have the nerve to explain everything that happened on the first night there in the Holiday Inn. We had talked about it some before—or Charles had talked about it. And we had, you know, necked the same as any engaged couple. And I had told Charles way back, of course, that I wanted my marriage consumed <em>after</em> I was married. Not before. Because if it was consumed before, then I would have to carry the thought of that throughout my entire life and it’s hard to undo that which has already been done.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ve read books. I’ve had talks with my mama. And I’ve read the Bible. You’d think that would prepare a woman for her wedding night.</p>

  <p class="indent">It didn’t. First of all, Charles had rib-eye steaks rolled into our room on this metal table with drawers which could keep the steaks warm. And there in the middle of the table was a dozen red roses. All that was nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">But in this silver bucket with ice and a white towel was, of all things, a bottle of champagne.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a predicament for me, because on the one hand it was all so wonderful, and Charles had planned it all out like the man is supposed to do—I mean, my dream was being fulfilled. Charles was getting things right. But on the other hand, there in the middle of the table rearing its ugly head, as they say, was a bottle of champagne. I’ve seen enough bottles of champagne after the World Series on TV (when the ballplayers <a id="page_18"></a>make fools out of themselves and cuss over the airways) to know one when I see it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, I’m not a prude. Getting drunk at your wedding is one thing, but I can understand a little private celebrating, maybe—as a symbol of something wonderful happening. Something symbolic. So I didn’t say anything about the champagne. It’s very hard to find fault on your wedding night with a dozen red roses staring you full in the face—even though a still, small voice was warning me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles poured me a glass and I said to myself, Why not just a sip, like medicine, and I tried a sip, but that’s all. It tasted like Alka Selzer with honey in it. I politely refused anymore. And didn’t think Charles would drink over a glass. (I figured you couldn’t buy it except in the bottle, and that’s why he got it that way.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and Charles pushed the table, with the dishes, out into the hall. I said excuse me, went into the bathroom, put on my negligee and got ready, you know, and came back out to find Charles standing there in his Fruit of the Loom, drinking champagne out of a plastic cup. It was a terrible scene to remember.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was planning to do what Mama explained to me: get in the bed and let Charles carry out his duties. And I was thinking that’s what Charles would be planning to do. But. He had a different idea which I do not have the nerve to explain. It turned into an argument which finally turned into a sort of Chinese wrestling match with my nerves tore all to pieces. Charles kept saying nothing was in the Bible about what married people could or couldn’t do. I finally cried, and Charles said he was sorry. It was awful. I cried again the next morning <a id="page_19"></a>and Charles said he was sorry again. This may be something I can forgive but I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. Not for a long time.</p>

  <p class="indentt">On the second day, we didn’t say much at breakfast, or after. We went to the beach for a while, ate hot dogs for lunch, and then came back to change clothes. Charles asked the manager about us playing music in the motel lounge that night. (We took our instruments in case we got a chance to play.) When he found out we’d do it free the manager said fine.</p>

  <p class="indent">So on the second night, rather than going to this country music show like we’d planned, we met the manager in the lounge. Charles wore bluejeans and I wore my blue-checkered blouse, jeans, and cowgirl hat. The manager came in and lit all the candles in these orange candle vases. There were only three or four people there. The only thing I didn’t like about it was that they served beer. But the bartender went out of his way to be nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">We decided to play half an hour and see if we could draw an audience. We started with several banjo pieces and then I sang “This World Is Not My Home” and “I’ll Fly Away.” I like the way those two songs fit together. It gives me something to talk about when I introduce them. Charles is good about letting me talk about the songs. I have played with people who hog it all.</p>

  <p class="indent">A crowd gathered, and sure enough they liked the music and clapped and somebody requested “Your Cheating Heart” and Charles tried it. He’s been learning it for the last month or so. He forgets words pretty easy. Nobody noticed but he sang the same verse twice. He looked at me and I managed to wink in spite of the fact I was still in turmoil from the night before.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_20"></a>We had told the manager we couldn’t play past nine-thirty that night. We told him it was our honeymoon and all. The truth is we only know about two hours worth of songs. But I did want to get back up to our bed and start our marriage in the proper manner. It’s something I had been thinking about since I was sixteen or seventeen years old and the night before had <em>not</em> worked out at all like I thought it would. It had made me a bundle of nerves and I had discovered something in Charles I didn’t know existed—something corroded, and him drinking a whole bottle of champagne brought it out. He still hasn’t taken serious my principles about drinking. That first night was a awful experience which I can’t bring myself to talk about, but I must say things went better on the second night. I was able to explain to Charles how I was supposed to come out of the bathroom in my negligee, go get in the bed, get under the cover, and then he was supposed to go to the bathroom, come out, come get under the cover, and accomplish what was supposed to be accomplished. It all worked the way it was supposed to, and was wonderful, I must say.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when I came out of the shower, before we went down for breakfast, Charles was talking on the phone to his other main friend besides Buddy Shellar: Johnny Dobbs, who lives in New Orleans. They were all three in the army together.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has a great voice,” he was saying. “Raney, get your guitar. Wait a minute, Johnny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the phone receiver on the bed, got out his banjo, hit a couple of licks and said to me, “Do ‘This World Is Not My Home.’ Wait a minute, let me introduce you to Johnny.” So he did, over the phone, and Johnny sounded real nice.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_21"></a>“Charles,” I whispered, “do you know how much this is costing?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll pay for it,” he said. “I’ve been telling Johnny about your voice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I sang “This World Is Not My Home,” and Charles asked Johnny if he could hear it clear over the phone and he said he could and then Charles wanted me to do my chicken song—the one I wrote. Charles thinks it’s the funniest thing he’s ever heard. It <em>is</em> a good song, and since Charles was paying. . . . It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">The town council chairman came by late last May.<br />
  Said we’re sorry, Mr. Oakley, ‘bout what we must say.<br />
  But the airport’s expanding, we mean you no harm.<br />
  The new north-south runway’s gonna point toward your farm.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to the governor, and told him my desire:<br />
  Could you please make them airplanes fly a little bit higher.<br />
  “My chickens ain’t laying,” I tried to explain.<br />
  But my words were going north on a south-bound train.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to a doctor; he gave me a pill.<br />
  I talked to a lawyer; you should have seen the bill.<br />
  I talked to a librarian; he grinned and winked his eye.<br />
  And he gave me a little book called, “Chickens Can Fly.”<br />
  (Charles says the book is by B. F. Skinner) <a id="page_22"></a><br />
  I read the little book. Taught my chickens to fly,<br />
  To aim at the intakes as the jet planes flew by.<br />
  My chickens are gone now, but the answer is found:<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I finished, Charles said Johnny really liked it. They talked another fifteen minutes before Charles finally hung up.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hugged Charles and said something about the night before. Charles said we ought to <em>talk</em> about our “sexual relationship” sometime, and I said okay, but Lord knows I won’t be able to <em>talk</em> about it. It’s something you’re supposed to do in a natural manner, not <em>talk</em> about. That’s why you don’t find it talked about in church and school—or at least you shouldn’t: it’s not supposed to be talked about. It’s something which is supposed to stay in the privacy of your own bedroom.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when we left, the manager was at the desk and he gave us an envelope with a twenty dollar bill in it. Said it was some of the best entertainment they ever had and would we please come back and that he once worked in a hotel in Reno, and he’d heard some better, but he’d sure heard a lot worse.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_4">III</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles is in the bedroom covered up in the bed. There are eleven broken monogrammed glasses here on the kitchen floor and every window in the house is locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">This all started last Saturday afternoon when I called Mama <a id="page_23"></a>as usual. I try to call her every day. We’ve always been close and I say those television commercials about calling somebody—reaching out and touching—make sense. Belinda Osborne drives to see her mother every day—forty miles round trip—which I’m not about to do. That is too close. Three times a week is often enough. (Belinda’s mother <em>is</em> sick a lot though.)</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d like to be living closer to home and I know Mama and Daddy were disappointed that we didn’t move into the Wilkins house, and I would have, but Charles insisted we live here in Listre because it’s close to the college. I finally said okay when he promised he would still go to church with me at home in Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">But: he’s been going to church less and less, and we’ve only been married six weeks. He’ll take me to Sunday School and drop me off, still wearing his pajamas under his clothes. He’s done it twice. Deacon Brooks said since Charles was Methodist he must think he’s too good for Free Will Baptists. He pretended he was kidding, but I could tell he was serious.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, as I said, I called Mama last Saturday afternoon and she told me that she had come by with Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to see us that morning but we were gone. They came on in to use the phone to call Annie Godwin so it wouldn’t be long distance. (We don’t lock the door normally.) Aunt Naomi went to the kitchen to get a glass of water and accidentally broke one of the monogrammed glasses Cousin Emma gave us for a wedding present. Mama told me all this on the phone. I didn’t think twice about it. I figured I’d just pick up another glass next time I’m at the mall. I know where they come from.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday, the very next day, we’re eating dinner at home in Bethel with Mama, Daddy, Uncle Nate, Mary Faye, and <a id="page_24"></a>Norris. Mama fixes at least two meats, five or six vegetables, two kinds of cornbread, biscuits, chow-chow, pickles, pies, and sometimes a cake.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Where did you tell me you all were yesterday morning?” She was getting the cornbread off the stove. She’s always the last one to sit down.</p>

  <p class="indent">“At the mall,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I like where you moved the couch to,” says Mama. “It looks better. We waited for you all fifteen or twenty minutes. I’m sorry Naomi broke that glass,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t mentioned it to Charles. No reason to. He says—and he was serious: “Why were you all in our house?”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was mortified in my heart.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We were just using the phone,” says Mama. There was a long silence. It built up and then kept going.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pass the turnips, Mary Faye,” I said. “I couldn’t figure out what was wrong in there so I moved things around until it looked better and sure enough it was the couch. The couch was wrong.”</p>

  <p class="indent">My mama ain’t nosy. No more than any decent woman would be about her own flesh and blood.</p>

  <p class="indent">Listen. I don’t have nothing to hide. And Lord knows, Charles don’t, except maybe some of his opinions.</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and set in the den and talked for a while and the subject didn’t come up again. Charles always gets fidgety within thirty minutes of when we finish eating. He has no appreciation for just setting and talking. And I don’t mean going on and on about politics or something like that; I mean just talking—talking about normal things. So since he gets fidgity, we usually cut our Sunday visits short. “Well, I guess <a id="page_25"></a>we better get on back,” I say, while Charles sits over there looking like he’s bored to death. I know Mama notices.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we’re out of the driveway, Charles says, “Raney, I think you ought to tell your mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to stay out of our house unless somebody’s home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">To stay out of <em>my</em> own house.</p>

  <p class="indent">He couldn’t even wait until we were out of the driveway. And all the car windows rolled down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got on down the road, out of hearing distance, I said, “Charles, you don’t love Mama and never did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He pulls the car over beside the PEACHES FOR SALE sign across from Parker’s pond. And stares at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">The whole thing has tore me up. “Charles,” I said, and I had to start crying, “you don’t have to hide your life from Mama and them. Or me. You didn’t have to get all upset today. You could understand if you wanted to. You didn’t have to get upset when I opened that oil bill addressed to you, either. There ain’t going to be nothing in there but a oil bill, for heaven’s sake. Why anyone would want to hide a oil bill I cannot understand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He starts hollering at me. The first time in my life anybody has set in a car and hollered at me. His blood vessels stood all out. I couldn’t control myself. It was awful. If you’ve ever been hollered at, while you are crying, by the one person you love best in the world, you know what I mean. This was a part of Charles I had never seen.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Here’s what happened yesterday. We went to Penny’s Grill for lunch. (I refuse to cook three meals a day, I don’t care what <a id="page_26"></a>Mama says.) When we got back, there was Mama’s green Ford—parked in front of the house.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is that your mother’s Ford?” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“There.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, in front of the house? I think it might be.” That long silence from the dinner table last Sunday came back, and I hoped Mama was out in the back yard picking up apples because I knew I couldn’t stand another scene within a week. I couldn’t think of a thing to say. I didn’t want to fuss at Charles right before he talked to Mama, and I certainly wouldn’t dare fuss at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles got out of the car not saying a word and started for the house. I was about three feet behind, trying to keep up. The front door was wide open.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stopped just inside the door. I looked over his shoulder and there was Mama coming through the arched hall doorway. She stopped. She was dressed for shopping.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, where in the world have you all been?” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We been to eat,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Eating out?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “please do not come in this house if we’re not here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe what I was hearing. It was like a dream.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Charles son, I was only leaving my own daughter a note saying to meet me at the mall at two o’clock, at the fountain. The front door was open. You should lock the front door if you want to keep people out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell, a person is entitled to his own privacy. I’m entitled to my own privacy. This is my—our—house. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_27"></a>“This is my own daughter’s house, son. My mama was never refused entrance to my house. She was always welcome. Every day of her life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was afraid Mama was going to cry. I opened my mouth but nothing came out.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “it seems as though you think everything <em>you</em> think is right, is right for everybody.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, “that’s what everybody thinks—in a sense. That’s even what <em>you</em> think.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles turned half around so he could see me. He looked at me, then at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Son, I’ll be happy to buy you a new monogrammed glass if that’s what you’re so upset about. Naomi didn’t mean to break that glass. I’m going over to the mall right now. And I know where they come from.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walks past me and out the front door, stops, turns around and says, “I didn’t want any of those damned monogrammed glasses in the first place and I did the best I could to make that clear, plus that’s not the subject.” (I gave him a monogrammed blue blazer for his birthday and he cut the initials off before he’d wear it.)</p>

  <p class="indent">So now Mama’s at the mall with her feelings hurt. Charles is in the bedroom with a blanket over his head, and I’m sitting here amongst eleven broken monogrammed glasses, and every door and window locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">Evidently Charles throws things when he’s very mad. I never expected violence from Charles Shepherd. Thank God we don’t have a child to see such behavior.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We didn’t speak all afternoon, or at supper—I fixed hot <a id="page_28"></a>dogs, split, with cheese and bacon stuck in—or after. I went to bed at about ten o’clock, while Charles sat in the living room reading some book. I felt terrible about Mama’s feelings being hurt like I know they were; I hadn’t known whether to call her or not; I couldn’t with Charles there; and I couldn’t imagine what had got into Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I went to bed and was trying to go to sleep, with my mind full of upsetting images, when I heard this <em>voice</em> coming out of the heating vent at the head of the bed on my side. I sat up. I thought at first it was somebody under the house. I let my head lean down over the side of the bed close to the vent. It was <em>Charles</em>—talking on the phone in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now if we’d been on speaking terms I would have told him I could hear him, but we weren’t speaking. And besides, I won’t about to get out of bed for no reason at eleven <small>P.M</small>. And so I didn’t have no choice but to listen, whether I wanted to or not.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was talking to his Johnny friend. I could hear just about everything he said. If we had been speaking, I wouldn’t have hesitated to tell him how the sound came through the vent. But we weren’t speaking, as I said. He was talking about—you guessed it: Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“. . . She just broke in, in essence . . . just walked through the door when nobody was home. . . . It’s weird, Johnny. . . . What am I supposed to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Now why didn’t he ask <em>me</em> what he was supposed to do? He didn’t marry Johnny Dobbs.</p>

  <p class="indent">I agree that some things need to be left private—but the <em>living room</em>? The living room is where everybody comes into the house. That’s one of the last places to keep private on earth. <a id="page_29"></a>I just can’t connect up Charles’s idea about privacy to the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">He went on about Mama for awhile and then said something about everybody saying “nigger,” and that when Johnny came to see us for him not to drive in after dark—which I didn’t understand until it dawned on me that maybe Johnny Dobbs was a, you know, black. He didn’t sound like it when I talked to him over the phone at Myrtle Beach. Charles and his other army buddy, Buddy Shellar, at the wedding kept talking about “Johnny this” and “Johnny that” but I never thought about Johnny being anything other than a regular white person. They were all three in the army, which of course everybody knows has been segregated since 1948, according to Charles, so I guess it’s possible they roomed together, or at least ate together.</p>

  <p class="indent">He didn’t sound, you know, black.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ll ask Charles about it when we’re on speaking terms and I tell him about how the sound comes through the vent; but if he <em>is</em> a nigger, he can’t stay here. It won’t work. The Ramada, maybe, but not here.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_5">IV</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Flossie called last Wednesday—said to come by and pick up some fresh peanut butter cookies. She lives in a little four-room house between Listre and Bethel—and cooks apple pies for Penny’s Grill on the side. Her kitchen is always smelling <a id="page_30"></a>like cinnamon and sugar-cooked apples. Charles can’t get over how good her apple pies are. He asked her for the recipe and he don’t even cook.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m cooking an extra apple pie,” she says. “I’ll be done in a few minutes and you can have a hot piece with some ice cream.” Aunt Flossie has a way about her that makes me feel free to talk. She seems like she’s used to talking, even though she lives by herself. When something hard to talk about comes up, there’s a little sparkle in her eyes—and she loves to tell stories almost as much as Uncle Nate. I went right over there.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” she said, “when Frank and me got married it was like starting to school—the things I had to learn. I guess I’d never had an argument with a soul in the world—except a few squabbles with Mama.” She was making up cookie dough. (Now, how could she tell that Charles and me had had a argument?) “I don’t know about Frank,” she said, “but I don’t guess he’d ever argued with a woman, certainly not his mama. We had to <em>learn</em> to argue. I’d get so mad at him. We’d stay mad for days, not speaking. I finally figured out that that kind of business scared me. Scared me bad. And that’s why I was so mad. Like with old man Wiley’s bull, Red—us being scared and mad getting run together at the same time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Old man Wiley’s bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I shot old man Wiley’s bull one time. Named Red. I couldn’t have been over twelve. He was always getting loose and chasing us up a tree. Mama told Mr. Wiley to keep his bull locked up, else she’d shoot him. Course I heard all this talk—so one day all of us were down in the woods when Red got out and started pawing dirt, throwing his head around, and snorting, and I ran to the house and snuck the shotgun out the back door. Everybody was up a tree when I got back. I <a id="page_31"></a>shot him. He turned and run and I shot him again. We hated that bull. And the reason we hated him was we were so scared of him. Why, the bull won’t doing nothing unnatural. And the whole point is, we were mad <em>because</em> we were scared and I never figured <em>that</em> out until me and Frank figured out about our arguments.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whose bull was it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was old man Wiley’s bull. One day I told Frank that our arguments scared me and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to the bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, he won’t hurt none. The gun had birdshot. Ah, the pies are ready.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s no apple pie in the world better than Aunt Flossie’s, especially with cold vanilla ice cream melting down over it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Frank died when I was about seven. He was a car salesman. I don’t remember much about him. But I’ve seen lots of pictures of him and Aunt Flossie, Mama and Daddy, and Aunt Naomi and Uncle Forrest, who died sometime before I was six. They all went to the beach, the fair, and the mountains together and took bunches of pictures.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How old was I when Uncle Forrest died?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Four. Three or four, I guess. Frank used to call him ‘Woody.’ What a card he was. Always kidding. People always liked that about him though. I never saw him embarrassed but once. Did I ever tell you about the time we all went to the beach before him and Naomi were married?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, me and Doris were swimming in the ocean when here comes Naomi and Forrest from the bath house. They don’t get no farther than about a foot deep—where the waves are breaking for the third or fourth time—and Naomi is holding <a id="page_32"></a>onto Forrest’s hand and jumping every little wave and screaming like nobody’s business when Doris—who’s standing behind me—says, ‘Lord have mercy.’ I look and there’s Naomi just jumping up and down over those little waves, laughing, and one of her breasts—just as white as flour—was out of her bathing suit and Forrest—they weren’t married yet—was looking off down the beach, like he hadn’t noticed. Doris says, ‘Lord have mercy, Flossie, one of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’ Well, I thought I would die. I started walking toward them, motioning to Naomi, and she just kept jumping up and down. Forrest was pretending he hadn’t noticed—looking off down the beach. Naomi saw and turned away from Forrest and bent over double and got everything tucked back in. Forrest was standing there embarrassed to death and I said, ‘Tell us a joke, Woody.’ But the funniest thing was your mama saying, ‘One of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’”</p>

  <p class="indent">A pan of cookies was done—and Aunt Flossie wrapped me up a bunch in wax paper and put them in a cookie can.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Anyway, honey, try not to worry too much about the rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What rough spots?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“With Charles—if and when.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, there ain’t no rough spots.” I couldn’t get into all that about Charles. Even with Aunt Flossie. If it got worse: maybe.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean any you might have.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Well, Charles is just as sweet as he can be. We been working up some new music. We learned three new Carter family tunes last week. I’ll let you know if there get to be any rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_33"></a>“You be sure to do that,” says Aunt Flossie. “It never hurts to have somebody to listen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A week or two ago, Charles said he wished he had a Aunt Flossie in his family. His aunts are all out West, or in Connecticut.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_6">V</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Naomi called me this past Wednesday was a week ago and upset me terrible. She called to find out all about our upcoming trip to the beach: when, exactly, we were coming back, what food she needed to take, and so forth. She also said Mama was upset about the argument with Charles—they had talked about it on the phone—but that Mama wouldn’t say nothing to me about it for the world. She said Mama felt betrayed and couldn’t understand why it all had to happen to her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, it just made me sick. I don’t know why Charles had to react so. Mama would never hurt anything in the world, and Charles knows it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now Aunt Naomi, as well as Mama, has got something against Charles. The problem is that nobody has seen the good side of anybody else—in the whole family, since the wedding—except, I guess Daddy has pretty much seen the good side of Charles, and has took to Charles better than anybody else. Except me, of course—and maybe Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">So anyway, when we drove to the beach last Sunday (we left <a id="page_34"></a>right after Sunday School), Charles insisted on sitting up front with Daddy, so they could talk about surf fishing. They had these great long fishing rods, and some short ones, tied to the top of the car. I don’t know why they don’t just use the short ones, which are way less expensive, and fish off the pier like other people. They can get their line farther out in the ocean that way. Those big rods cost a fortune.</p>

  <p class="indent">I wanted Charles to sit in the back with me and Aunt Naomi so they could get to know each other’s good sides a little better, and so Mama and Daddy could sit up front where they could argue by themselves. But oh no. Charles gets up front before anybody else has a chance. Me, Mama, and Aunt Naomi sat in the back. Uncle Nate, Aunt Flossie, Mary Faye, and Norris followed us in Aunt Flossie’s Oldsmobile.</p>

  <p class="indent">The funny thing is this: Charles has not gone anywhere with Daddy driving—and Daddy don’t always chew tobacco when he drives but last Sunday he did; and what he does when he chews tobacco and drives is use a drink bottle, usually a short Coke-a-cola bottle, for a spitoon. When I saw Daddy bringing a Coke bottle to the car I figured it served Charles right for not wanting to ride in the back with Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">See, Charles has a repulsion about anything gooey and slimey. He won’t eat boiled okra and he thinks somebody spitting is just awful, whereas I don’t see nothing wrong with it as long as it’s not on somebody.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes if Daddy takes a chew while he’s driving, and a Coke bottle’s not around, he’ll open the car door at a stop sign and spit on the road—which might have been better for Charles on this trip—but when he does that, the tobacco spatters up, and the car door gets to looking like a speckled dog until Mama goes out and cleans it off with Ajax.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_35"></a>So Sunday, as soon as Daddy gets settled behind the steering wheel, he cuts off this big hunk of Brown Williamson. I buy him four plugs every Christmas and I buy Mama a bottle of Jergen’s lotion. Of course that’s not all I buy. Last Christmas I bought Daddy a pair of ceramic bird dogs and I bought Mama a off-white shawl which she took back. She takes back most things she buys or you give her. She’s always hard to buy for. She’ll <em>tell</em> you she’s hard to buy for. One Christmas, Ferbie Layton told Aunt Flossie that Mama was pretty and Aunt Flossie told me and Aunt Naomi that she was passing along the compliment to Mama as a Christmas present because for sure Mama couldn’t return that. If she does keep something you give her, she’ll alter it. One Christmas I gave her a free-hanging plaid blouse which she said she believed she’d take up even though we all told her it was the right length. So she finally said she wouldn’t take it up. Aunt Flossie said she bet she would. (I think she did, but we never knew for sure.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t got as far as Paulsen’s Gulf when Daddy pulls his Coke bottle up from between his legs and spits in a long string of brown juice. He breaks the spit off by flicking the mouth of the Coke bottle against his bottom lip. Comes clear every time.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles squirmed. I wanted to say Charles if you weren’t watching out for yourself so much, you wouldn’t have to be up there; you could be back here in the back seat getting to know Aunt Naomi a little better, and Mama could be up front with Daddy so they wouldn’t have to argue back and forth across the seat.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Mama says what she always says at the Oak Hill intersection when we go to the beach: “Thurman, you’re going to turn to the right here?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_36"></a>“Yes I am, Doris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re not going by the interstate?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just asked, Thurman. Remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, it was longer when we went this way.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That was early of a Friday morning when the traffic was thick.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, the point is you don’t have all them little towns to drive through on the interstate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just thinking of how not to take so long to get there. I declare,” says Mama to Aunt Naomi, “the ‘blacks’ stop in these little towns in the middle of the street and talk to whoever happens to be on the sidewalk and you can’t blow your horn lest one’s liable to come back for all you know and cut your throat.” (Mama has started saying “blacks” when Charles is around. And I guess I have too.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to,” Daddy says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay, I’ll drive,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a long pause during which the car didn’t slow down a bit.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll drive,” says Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well then,” says Mama, “you shouldn’t say you’ll be glad for me to drive.” There was this other long pause. “When you’re not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy just looked at Charles, shifted his tobacco from one cheek to the other and says, “You got any connector sleeves in your tackle box? I’m out.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_37"></a>Charles said he had plenty.</p>

  <p class="indentt">For the past ten years, every time we go to the beach, we eat at Hardee’s in Goldsboro. So when we got close, Daddy says, “Ya’ll want to eat at Hardee’s?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Any place is fine with me,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">And do you know what Charles has the gall to say? He says, “I’d rather eat at some place we can sit down to order, if it’s all the same.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe my ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">One reason Charles had to speak up is because he took a course at the college called Aggressiveness Training. It teaches you to say what you want to say when you want to say it. The thing is: Charles never needed any aggressiveness training. He’s never had any problem being aggressive. But he thinks it’s the modern way or something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to eat at Hardee’s so I can get a apple turnover,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy said he didn’t care, someplace to sit down and order would be fine with him, but Mama and Aunt Naomi sided with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">You see, Charles tries out his aggressiveness training when in his heart he really don’t care. He just wants to keep it in practice—keep it working, like when you break up a flower bed in winter just to keep it loose.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at Hardee’s.</p>

  <p class="indent">After lunch, me and Charles traded car seats. His idea.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now. You would think Charles could ride to the beach without disagreeing with Aunt Naomi right there in the back seat. But oh no. It was over a very simple matter.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi goes to our church but she lives out in the <a id="page_38"></a>country, close to Hillview Baptist—not a Free Will, and while we rode along she told all about them having to let their preacher go.</p>

  <p class="indent">“After it all got out they didn’t have no choice but to let him go,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it started out with him praying regular with this woman whose husband got killed in a car wreck. I didn’t know her—or her husband. She hadn’t been around long. I think they were praying every Wednesday night after prayer meeting. She up and moves to Charlotte and nobody thought anything about it until Tim Hodges, who’s the treasurer, noticed these regular phone calls on the church phone bill. One was over thirty minutes. He told Lloyd Womble, the head deacon. I guess they kept a eye on things and one Friday after the preacher said he was going to see his brother in Franklin, they checked up on him. Called his brother. His brother hadn’t seen him and won’t expecting him. Well.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Saturday, when the preacher got back, Tim and Lloyd paid him a visit. Asked him where he’d been and he said to see his brother. And of course they had him. Just plain had him.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They certainly are a trusting bunch,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes,” says Aunt Naomi, “they trust in the Lord, of course.” She was looking straight at the back of Charles’s head. “Now the funny part was that Emily, the preacher’s wife, didn’t get mad at the preacher—that I know of. She got mad at Tim and Lloyd because they wouldn’t believe it when the preacher said he was sorry. She said <em>she</em> believed he was sorry. But what else would the man say—caught red-handed. Tim and Lloyd felt obliged to bring it before the church and the church voted him out. He had to move.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_39"></a>After a minute, Charles says, “It’s possible that Jesus would have forgiven him. After all, he forgave a prostitute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">That took the cake. I’ve been going to church since I was born and I don’t remember anything about Jesus forgiving a prostitute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Besides that, a prostitute is not married like the preacher was.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi just looked out the window, then hunted through her pocketbook for some chewing gum and said, “Well, I don’t know about that.”</p>

  <p class="indentt">We stay at Mr. Albert Douglas’s cabin at the beach every summer. He rents it to us at half price and it’s only two blocks from the ocean. We found the key on the nail in the stumpy tree beside the back door and let ourselves in. Everything had been left in order. We opened all the windows to get rid of the closed-in smell. There was a nice breeze.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate took Norris and Mary Faye for a quick look at the ocean while the rest of us unpacked. I insisted me and Charles get the couch to sleep on since we’d probably be staying up later than anybody else.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had barely got settled when Uncle Nate’s asthma started acting up. It usually does at the beach. He sat down on the couch and said he’d sit there for a spell. He was breathing fast, pulling back with his shoulders on each breath, and giving a little wheezy cough every minute or so. His hair was slicked straight back with Vitalis and he was wearing a starched white shirt as usual.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris and Mary Faye came in begging Charles and me to take them to the boardwalk. I kind of wanted to go to the boardwalk myself. I like the hubbub. So Charles and me took them. We <a id="page_40"></a>all got a ice cream cone as soon as we got there, but before Norris took the first bite, his scoop fell out. Vanilla—he won’t eat nothing but vanilla. He started to pick it up.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stupid,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris,” I said, “ask the lady for another scoop. Don’t pick that up off the boardwalk.” He already had most of it up. He let it drop back. The lady saw what happened and had him another scoop ready when he reached up his cone. I got some napkins and wiped off his hand.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked along the boardwalk. I looked back to check on Norris. He was walking along, looking back over his shoulder at this little boy with a stuffed giraffe. His ice cream cone was tilting more and more.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris, don’t drop your—”</p>

  <p class="indent">That scoop fell between the planks and left just the slightest bit up top. Norris squatted down and looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">The lady made us pay this time. I guess she was worried about going out of business.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles bought me a necklace from one of those little jewelry stands. I told him it was too expensive but he bought it anyway and had “Love, Tiger” wrote on it. He does little things like that, that a lot of men never think about. I tried to get him to ring the bell with the sledge hammer, but he wouldn’t. Norris wanted to but I wouldn’t let him. He would have been disappointed. I did let him and Mary Faye ride the bumper cars three times. They got the bottoms of their feet so black Aunt Naomi made them wash them off with soap at the outside shower before she’d let them come in the cottage.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had pimento cheese and monkey meat—that’s luncheon meat—sandwiches and potato chips for supper. Then after <a id="page_41"></a>supper while Daddy was unfolding the card table for Rook, Aunt Naomi wanted to know how thick the niggers had been down at the boardwalk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not very,” I said. “They hang out mostly over at Wright’s beach.” That’s the nigger beach. “I don’t think I saw over one or two.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I saw a whole car load,” says Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’ve got as much right as anyone else to walk on the boardwalk,” says Charles. Charles has this thing about niggers. For some reason he don’t understand how they are. Or at least how they are around Listre and Bethel. Maybe his Johnny friend is different. I can only speak for the ones around Listre and Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, son,” says Aunt Naomi, “I agree they got a right. The Constitution gives them a right. So that’s settled. There’s no question about that. No argument at all about that. The problem comes with where they want to spend their time. And so long as they’ve got <em>their</em> beach, like Raney says, then I don’t understand to my life why they don’t use it—why they have to use ours. In Russia they wouldn’t have their own beach. But our constitution does provide that they can have their own beach. I agree. It’s just that they need to stay in their own place at their own beach just like the white people stay at their own place at their own beach.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody else said anything—Uncle Nate was asleep on the couch—but you could tell we all agreed except Charles. He walks through the screen door on outside.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t understand where he gets some of his attitudes,” says Aunt Naomi. “What’s trumps?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_42"></a>Monday morning, Mama and me cooked eggs, bacon, grits, and biscuits. After breakfast, Daddy, Uncle Nate, and Charles took Mary Faye and Norris fishing at the pier. Me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie cleaned up the dishes, put on our bathing suits, got towels and suntan lotion, and walked to the beach. We were all planning to meet back at the cabin for lunch.</p>

  <p class="indent">About the time we got settled on a nice even spot, along came this Marine with a woman who had a blue lightning bolt tattooed on the inside of her knee. They sat down on this white towel—too little for both of them—beside some college students. The waves were crashing, so I know they couldn’t hear us talk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare I don’t think I’ve ever seen a woman with a tattoo,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“On the inside of her knee.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, <em>where</em>? Where are they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He looks like a soldier.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a Marine from Camp Lejune,” I said. “I can tell by the way his hair’s cut.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see no tattoo on her,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute and you will,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There it is,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’ll be dog,” says Aunt Naomi. “Don’t that beat all? A blue lightning bolt. Do you reckon she drew that on there with a ball point pen?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not unless she can draw mighty good,” says Mama. <a id="page_43"></a>“Course a lightning bolt ain’t all that hard to draw. I remember from school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now can you imagine,” says Aunt Naomi, “Some woman walking into a tattoo parlor with a bunch of men standing around, hiking up her dress and saying I want a blue lightning bolt tattooed right here on the inside of my knee? Can you imagine that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I sure can’t,” says Mama. “But she looks like she’s been in plenty places like that. I mean she looks like she’s spent a good deal of her life indoors in some back room.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, she could be a you-know-what,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman was pale and skinny with black hair stringy wet from swimming. She lit a cigarette and when she pulled it out of her mouth she laughed smoke at something the Marine said and I could see some of her teeth were rotten.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young people nowadays will go to almost any length,” said Aunt Naomi. “I don’t know what it’s all coming to. Who ever heard of so much burning, beating, and stabbing, and my Lord, I can’t imagine what Papa would done to me had I come home with a blue lightning bolt tattooed on my kneecap. Why he would—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s on the inside of her knee,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why he would have skint me alive.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked Charles all of a sudden and said we’d better come to the house, that Norris had a fish hook hung in his <em>nose</em>. He said that on Mary Faye’s first cast, Norris was walking behind her and the hook caught him, as clean as day, in his left nostril—<em>with the worm still on the hook</em>. We followed him to the cottage. I couldn’t imagine.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walk in and there sits Norris in a straightback chair, crying, with Uncle Nate down on his knees trying to see in <a id="page_44"></a>Norris’s nose and Norris trying to hold his head still but not being able to on account of crying.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris rolls his eyes to look at us when we walk in. Standing there beside him is Mary Faye, holding a rod and Zebco reel with a line leading to Norris’s nose where the hook is stuck in his nostril with a live worm half in and half out. It won’t bleeding though. Daddy is standing behind Uncle Nate, watching.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I say we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute,” says Uncle Nate, “if the barb ain’t in we can pull it right out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If the barb ain’t in, it would’ve fell out, wouldn’t it?—with that great big worm on there,” says Aunt Flossie. “He must weigh half a pound.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t need that much worm to catch a fish,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I agree,” I said. In many ways Charles is very clearheaded.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, if I can just—” said Uncle Nate, reaching up toward Norris’s nose.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris lets out this short yell and puts his hand in front of his face.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stands up and looks around at everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Tears are dropping off the worm. A drop of blood appears.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s bleeding,” says Charles. “What’s wrong with taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s the worm bleeding,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you know that?” asks Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_45"></a>“Cause it’s a blood worm. They’re supposed to bleed. That’s what it’s called: a blood worm. That’s what it says where you buy them on the pier: blood worms, $2.00 a dozen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Gosh, they’ve gone up,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, suppose it <em>is</em> the worm,” says Charles. “What can you lose by taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The worm or Norris?” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Norris,</em>” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Norris goes, the worm goes,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“To start with,” says Uncle Nate to Charles, “you’re going to lose about fifty dollars. Second, you’re going to lose a chance to do something for yourself instead of some overpaid doctor doing it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walked out the door. Again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy took over. “Now, wait a minute,” he said. “Everybody sit down. No. No, not you, Mary Faye. You stand right there and hold the pole, honey.” He pulled a chair in front of Norris’s chair and sat down. “You all go on about your business. I want to talk to Norris a few minutes. Let me have the rod and reel, Mary Faye. Now, Mr. Norris. I’ll bet that nose hurts, don’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why don’t you stand up real easy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stood up, stretching his neck out and holding his head still like a dog smelling a dead snake, his hands hanging down by his sides with his fingers spread like he was afraid of touching something gooey—or like he <em>had</em> touched something gooey.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay,” said Daddy, “I’ll tell you what let’s do—do you want to get that old worm out of there?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down, easy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_46"></a>“Now the first thing I want you to do is give me your hand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris reached out his hand and Daddy took it in his hand and massaged it around and around. “Now you just relax. We’ll get that old worm right out of there in no time flat. You think about that little sting as a mosquito bite.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down. A tear dropped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now you take holt of the line right here—that’s right. Right there. That’s good. Now you just move your hand up along the line until it gets up to that little hook. Okay. Now. You relax and I’m going to wrap my hand around your hand and help you out a little bit.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded up and down, slow. His eyes were getting bigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hold your head real still and we’ll—”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy nudged up and then down, and that hook came right out—as pretty as you please. Aunt Flossie went over and hugged Norris and he started bawling and his nose started bleeding but we put some cold towels on it. Mama got a little alcohol on some cotton up in there and then some Vaseline. Norris cried with the alcohol but calmed down with the Vaseline.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We ate banana sandwiches for lunch. Then me and Uncle Nate went along with Daddy and Charles to watch them surf fish. First we stopped by the fish market and bought some fish to cut up and use for bait; then we drove to this spot where Daddy said the blues might be biting.</p>

  <p class="indent">They’d cast far out with a piece of dead fish on the hook, then stand there for ten or fifteen minutes before winding in <a id="page_47"></a>the line to check the bait, which was smoothed down and considerably smaller than when they first threw it out. Charles said the sand and current did that. He let me hold his rod for a while, then he asked Uncle Nate if he wanted to hold it for a while, but he said no, and at about three o’clock Uncle Nate left—said he was going to walk up to the boardwalk and try to find a newspaper. We fished until about five and caught one fish. Daddy caught him but he was too little to keep.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got back to the cottage, Mama and the others had been swimming. Everybody was sunburned except Daddy. He wears all his clothes at the beach, all the time, every time we go.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate didn’t turn up for supper and I could tell Mama was worried. We had cold fried chicken left over from the trip down, tomatoes, hot snap beans, and fresh hot biscuits, and had finished and been sitting around talking for a while when in walked Uncle Nate: drunk. But I didn’t think he was terribly drunk because he looked decent, except he had one sleeve rolled up and the other rolled down and unbuttoned.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “what in the world have you gone and done?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, Doris, nothing in the worl’ but been fishing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare,” says Mama, “you’d think you could come to the beach with your own family and behave yourself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy walked out on the porch with his oatmeal cookie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was over on the couch reading a <em>Time</em> magazine. Uncle Nate went over and sat down beside him.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where’d you go to school, boy?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They teach you the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_48"></a>“The what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The stays and capols.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t think so? You don’t think so? Wha’s capol of Missesota?” He was drunker than he looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Missesota?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Minnesota.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>You don’t know! You don’t know! St. Paul.</em> Hell no, they di’n teach you no capols.” Uncle Nate looked around.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama, “there’ll be no cussing in this beach cottage. You have done enough damage getting drunk in front of these children. It’s bad enough without you cussing in the very cottage Al Douglas has been nice enough to rent us at half price.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at her and then turned back to Charles. “Montgomery Alabama, Phoenix Arizona, Little Rock Arkansas, Sacramento California, Denver Colorado. Hell, I know ‘em every one.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “now I have told you—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Name a stay,” Uncle Nate says to Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Florida.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Tallahassee. Ha. See? Capol T-a-l-l-a-h-a-s-s-e-e. We had to learn to spell them too. How come you din have to learn the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What good is it?” asks Charles, pushing up off the couch with his hands and slipping away.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Why, hell, if you’re traveling through Miss’ippi and somebody says ‘what’s the capol of this stay?’ you say ‘St. Paul.’ You know something about <a id="page_49"></a>the stay you’re in. What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Hell, why come you learn anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Charles, “I’m just thinking why not write it all down on a piece of paper, put it in your billfold, and then spend all that time learning something else. Then when somebody wants to know a capital, pull out the piece of paper and read the answer.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Read</em> the answer. <em>Read</em> the answer. Shit, when I went to school—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate!” Mama says. “I said I was not going to have it and I mean it. If you want me to call the law you just keep it up. I’ll do it. I’ll do it right this very night.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate got quiet, almost whispering—“When I went to school you learned your lessons. You went home and learned your lessons. And when it was time to work you worked. And when it was time to go to church, you went to church. And when it was time to go to bed, you went to bed. And when it was ti—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just glad I didn’t have to learn the states and capitals,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We had to <em>spell</em> them too.” Uncle Nate spit on “spell.” “Miss’ippi. Capol M-i-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i. Jackson. Capol J-a-c-k-s-o-n.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m glad you learned all that,” said Charles, getting up from the couch. “I think it’s about time I turned in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t care if you’re too good to talk to me,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I’m too good to talk to you.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_50"></a>“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes, yes, yes you do. I know when somebody thinks they’re too good to talk to me. But don’t worry, you’re not the first one. You just go right ahead off to beddy bye, sonny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles looked at me and I remembered we were sleeping on the couch. Everybody but Daddy had been sitting around listening. They started getting up—except Mama, who was sitting on a stool by the sink—and heading off to bed. It was time anyway. Charles asked me if I wanted to go out and get a breath of fresh air and I said I did.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you wanted to go to bed?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re sitting on my bed,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m sitting on the goddamn couch.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama stood up. “Uncle Nate,” I said. “Now, listen, Charles does not think he’s too good for you. You’ve just had too much to drink, and I think you ought to cut out that language. You’re here with the entire family and the least you can do is be polite. Charles does not think he’s too good for you. He’s just got his own opinions like anybody else, that’s all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked straight at me, with his mouth open and his eyes red and droopy, “You’re right, honey,” he says. “You’re exactly right.” And he starts crying. “I love you all more than anything,” he says, “and I pray for ever’one of you ever’night. I pray for you, Doris, and you, Raney, and for you, Naomi, and Thurman, and you, Flossie, and the kids and you too, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate, you’d better pray for yourself,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at Mama. His head was bobbing around and tears were on his cheeks. His head got still and he smiled and said, “Oh, I do that first.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_51"></a>“Let’s go outside,” Charles says to me. I walked over and patted Uncle Nate on the back and then me and Charles went outside while Mama fussed at Uncle Nate for taking the Lord’s name in vain.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked down to the beach and started toward the pier. Mary Faye was following us. We stopped and she stopped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’ll have to go back, Mary Faye,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You just will.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’re going to walk down to the pier and it’s time for you to go to bed.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not sleepy. Come on. Let me go. Daddy said I could.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Charles to wait and I went back and talked to Mary Faye. I figured she might be upset too. I told her that Uncle Nate was a good man at heart and not to be afraid of him, that God moves in mysterious ways, and that Uncle Nate’s cussing was the work of the Devil.</p>

  <p class="indent">She said she just wanted to go to the pier.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I explained that Charles was upset about Uncle Nate and that I needed to talk to him and that we’d go to the pier tomorrow.</p>

  <p class="indent">She kicked the sand, making it squeak, turned around and went on back.</p>

  <p class="indent">At the pier, Charles said Uncle Nate was a “weird bird.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean?” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he’s so neat, and so infernally obsessive. Drinking water at the same time every day?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he does. Three o’clock in the afternoon.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s just . . . the way he sits around and falls asleep; and then those incredible binges. He’s obviously depressed.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_52"></a>“Charles, he had some terrible times in World War II and sometimes he can’t hardly breathe with that asthma and emphysema or whatever. He never recovered from the war and Mama’s had to take care of him, don’t you see? And he won’t talk to anybody about what happened to him, except Uncle Newton—all night one night, they say. And Uncle Newton’s getting too sick for anybody to talk to, much. And he has to take those drugs for his nerves and his asthma. And he got that terrible burn on over fifty percent of his body. He’s got one big awful scar all over his body that he’ll have to carry with him all his life, plus his lungs from inhaling all that smoke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, there are lots of men who were wounded and had terrible times in World War II, and Vietnam, and World War I. They don’t necessarily sit around falling asleep all the time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Maybe they sleep at night, Charles. Maybe you don’t know all about what’s wrong with everybody, and maybe it’s something besides ‘psychology.’ I think part of the problem is you don’t think Uncle Nate likes you all that much.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s right. And where do you suppose I got that idea? He is obviously jealous. It’s not a great deal of fun being around that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s not the only other one in my family who you get to be around, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, he’s not the only other one; that’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It’s too bad Charles was a only child brought up without any family around. When he went to see a aunt or uncle, his mama and daddy had to carry him to another state. He just don’t have a single sense about family, about having family.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_53"></a>When Uncle Nate is sober he’s as nice as he can be. And you’ll never find anybody neater. His clothes are always pressed and starched. Well, Mama keeps them that way, but he keeps everything hung up and straight and folded. Then he’ll get drunk and filthy and come home and cuss something awful. And nobody able to do a thing unless it’s the law. Dorcus Kerr, the deputy sheriff, can usually handle him pretty well. Mama hates it when it comes to that. Daddy usually calls Dorcus, and Dorcus comes in his uniform. He puts it on if he’s off duty. Uncle Nate respects a uniform.</p>

  <p class="indentt">By Friday night, Uncle Nate had gotten sober on his own, thank goodness. After supper he wanted to hear “Give Me the Roses,” so Charles and me got out our instruments and did it. It’s one of our favorites too. It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">Wonderful things of folks are said<br />
  When they are passed away.<br />
  Roses adorn their narrow bed<br />
  Over the sleeping clay.<br />
  Give me the roses while I live,<br />
  Trying to cheer me on.<br />
  Useless are flowers that you give<br />
  After the soul is gone.</p>

  <p class="indentt">And it has a couple more verses.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy wanted to hear “Unclouded Day,” which Charles has been wanting to learn ever since I met him. We learned it about three weeks ago. So we did that, and then “Are You Tired of Me, My Darling?” and “Fifty Miles of Elbow Room,” two other Carter family tunes Daddy and Charles like. We tried to get everybody to sing on “Fifty <a id="page_54"></a>Miles,” but Uncle Nate and Daddy would be so far off key everybody would start laughing and that would get me laughing and that would get Charles laughing.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we finished singing, Uncle Nate told about the Christmas Uncle Pugg went to Raleigh to sell wreaths and holly and mistletoe and got lost and was too proud to ask anybody the way home. He slept that night in a church and the next morning the preacher saw him come out and asked him if he was the man who’d come to fix the steps. Uncle Pugg said he was. He had his tools in a box in the wagon. He fixed the steps and the preacher asked him to fix the roof and so he did that. Then the preacher asked him if he brought the window to put in. Uncle Pugg said he didn’t but that a man over in Bethel had the window and could the preacher tell him how to get there. The preacher told him, and Uncle Pugg came on home.</p>

  <p class="indent">At about ten o’clock when everybody else was going to bed, me and Charles walked out to the pier. Charles said he wasn’t even sure about the <em>names</em> of anybody in his family, besides his mama and daddy and aunts and uncles. I couldn’t imagine aunts and uncles not sitting around and telling all about <em>their</em> aunts and uncles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Out on the pier the breeze was steady and cool and the air had that fresh salty smell without the dead fish smell. The moon was coming up over the water, and waves hit against the poles, moving the pier the least bit. The moon was a dark red—because of the atmosphere, Charles said. He said it looks big at the horizon because it’s magnified by the air, which I’d never thought about. I always thought the orbit was closer when it came up, and then moved away. It sure <em>looks</em> <a id="page_55"></a>that way. Charles said the red was because of chemicals and such in the atmosphere. He knows about stuff I never think about. Anyway, the moon got whiter and higher and soon reflected white off the water.</p>

  <p class="indent">We stood against the rail, pushing our shoulders together, and Charles sung this little song:</p>

  <p class="poem">I see the moon and the moon sees me.<br />
  And the moon sees the one that I want to see.<br />
  God bless the moon and God bless me.<br />
  And God bless the one that I want to see.</p>

  <p class="indent">I love Charles more than anything. Sometimes he’s hard to get along with, and sometimes he has some problems with the family, but he makes up for it in all kinds of little ways, and he’s always praising my singing to other people. Daddy said he thought Charles had plenty of common sense beneath all that book learning, and then too at the wedding Daddy said he thought Charles was a good man.</p>

  <p class="indent">We came back home on Saturday and on the way Mama read to us out of a pamphlet she got in a drug store. It was about having a Christian home and the husband’s role and the wife’s role. I thought it made good sense, but Charles goes into a sermon right there in the back seat about customs being different in Bible times—which is not the point.</p>

  <p class="indentt">After we got back from the beach, and Charles got his rods separated out, and we drove on home and unpacked, and finished eating supper—some chili I froze before we left—Charles says, “I think I’ll call Johnny.” I had totally forgot to say anything about the vent or ask Charles if Johnny was a minority, but before I could say anything, Charles was on the <a id="page_56"></a>phone, talking about the beach trip. I was eating peaches for dessert and it didn’t seem like Charles minded me sitting there listening.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s got blue hair,” he said, “and talks more than anybody I ever met.” He was talking about you know who: Aunt Naomi, and eyeing me while he sat there, twisting the curly black phone cord around his finger. Then Johnny must have asked Charles what I looked like. “What does <em>she</em> look like?” said Charles, and looked at me and winked. “The most beautiful eyes I’ve ever seen, some kind of blue-green, and her front two teeth tuck back just enough to make her mouth cute, kind of pouty, and besides all that, she has the purest singing voice ever—can bend a note on a country song as good as any blues singer you ever heard. . . . What? No. No bad habits. Wait a minute. Raney, would you please leave the room?” Then he laughed and said I cussed too much which was a flip-flop because Charles is the one who cusses, and then he said the only fault he could think of was I didn’t give him any warning when I started a song and that I rubbed my nose straight up with the flat palm of my hand, but that was cute. Then he said none of my other faults were my fault.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought about going to the bedroom and listening through the vent, but that wouldn’t have been fair. Maybe it would have been fair if Charles was my child. Mama read my mail; but it was for my own interest. She said she wasn’t interested from curiosity, but for the sake of my well-being. So since Charles won’t my child and did have a peculiar reaction about privacy which I don’t understand, I decided I should tell him about the vent when he finished talking. But he talked so <em>long</em>. He told about the fish hook in Norris’s nose and then went <a id="page_57"></a>through Uncle Nate’s spelling lesson almost word for word and then some more about Aunt Naomi. He had good things to say about Daddy and Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished talking, Charles said Johnny said hello.</p>

  <p class="indent">I asked Charles what I dreaded: “Charles, is Johnny a minority?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s black, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A picture flashed in my mind of Mama and Daddy and Mary Faye and Norris and Uncle Nate and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and maybe a child of ours in the living room with Charles and his best friend, a nigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did you say something to him about coming here?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, not tonight. Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just wondered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Would that be a problem?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t guess so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t guess so?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, Charles, I know you were in the war together and everything but this ain’t exactly the war.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with our friendship?’</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Then why are we talking about this?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. The army has been segregated since 1948, you said, but Listre still has the black laundromat and the white laundromat and nobody complaining—neither side. Johnny might get embarrassed downtown, that’s all I’m worried about.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_58"></a>“You mean the army has been <em>integrated</em> since 1948.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I said.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You said <em>segregated</em>.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whatever.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, don’t worry about how Johnny might feel. He’s sensitive to racial issues. You don’t need to talk to a race horse about the race. He’s been there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What are you talking about?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I’m saying is that Johnny knows about towns like Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with a race horse?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Never mind. Don’t worry about it. He’s not coming anytime soon as far as I know. He’s busy with law school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">What happened with all this conversation about Johnny Dobbs was: I forgot to mention the vent.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_7">VI</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles’s mother called on the Monday after we got back from the beach and said she was going to Connecticut the first week in September to see her sister, Charles’s Aunt Sue, and would like to drop by to see us—on the way up (Monday, Monday night, and Tuesday), and on the way back down to Atlanta (Saturday night and Sunday). She asked if it would be all right, if three months had given us enough time to settle in. I told her it had. She said not to do any extra preparing.</p>

  <p class="indent">Lord, Lord. Last week was the big week. And it was not <a id="page_59"></a>smooth, like I’d hoped it would be. Charles had that meeting at our house—wouldn’t cancel it—on Monday night, then the Sneeds business was all over the newspaper on the following Saturday which we got in a argument about at Sunday dinner at Mama’s with Charles’s mother sitting right there in the middle of it, taking up for Sneeds. Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Not to speak of the fact that Charles and Millie went to an Episcopal Church Sunday morning—and dragged me along.</p>

  <p class="indent">I figured from the start we’d put Millie in the guest room. (She told me on the phone, again, to call her Millie.) Charles suggested <em>we</em> stay in the guest room and his mama stay in our room. I said a guest is a guest and that his mother was the guest and that’s what the room is: a guest room.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said his mother was not used to sleeping on a narrow bed. So I asked him what did he think I was used to sleeping on, and why didn’t he just give his mother the whole house and we’d move on down to the Landmark Motel for the duration.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a matter of principle for me and I won out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday, before she came on Monday, I vacuumed the whole place, cleaned the window panes in front, shined up the bathroom, and made the guest room a little nicer by putting in the radio alarm clock, our antique brass lamp, a wall mirror, a little table with some fruit in a bowl, and our biggest wedding picture. Then I realized the fruit bowl might draw gnats, so I took that out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday night Charles tells me about this meeting he’s planning to have at our house Monday night—whether his mama is there or not. He’s joined this thing called a TEA club; he’s been to several meetings and it was his turn to have the meeting <a id="page_60"></a>at our house. The TEA stands for Thrifty Energy Alternatives. I suddenly realized that with people coming to the meeting, and with Charles’s mother being there, I’d have to paint, or Charles would have to paint, the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, if you’ll paint that living room some color I can understand then I’ll be happy for you to have your meeting here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it as it is?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why do you think I’ve carried back those six sets of drapes?” See, Charles is just like a man. Has no more sense for color schemes than Bill Grogan’s goat. “They didn’t <em>go</em>. Nothing goes with that scum green tint. And Mama said none of them went. And for sure your mother and somebody at the meeting will notice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re telling me you don’t want the meeting over here unless I paint the living room?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Most certainly. And your mother can’t come unless you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney. Do you have some color in mind? My God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some off-white without that green in it. And I’ve told you about cussing in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You get the paint and I’ll paint it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I did. Saturday morning. And Charles painted the living room. Saturday afternoon, before he finished, I got these real nice gold and brown drapes that go. Then after that I got my hair done.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday afternoon Charles goes to the Winn Dixie for groceries and comes back with a bottle of <em>wine</em>. He didn’t even ask me—just brought it in as bright as day with the groceries, and I found it while I was unpacking.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_61"></a>“Charles, what’s this for?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The TEA meeting.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d rather not have wine in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, some of the people coming to the meeting will be bringing wine. I’d like also to have some available—for my own mother, anyway.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. Why do you need wine at a meeting?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“To drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t say anything else, partly because it involved Charles and his own mother and partly because it won’t champagne, which evidently does something to Charles’s brain, and partly, I suppose, because I thought of Madora. She drinks wine at meals, like the French, and she poured me some one afternoon a couple of weeks ago—by mistake: she knows I don’t drink. I took a sip, though, to see what all the fuss was about.</p>

  <p class="indent">Madora’s as fine a Christian as you’ll find—judging from what all she does for people, and how good she is to her mama and daddy. I drunk only one sip. I told her it was better than champagne. She said champagne <em>was</em> wine, which surprised me because they don’t taste the same at all.</p>

  <p class="indent">We picked up Millie at the airport at about one o’clock Monday afternoon. She was wearing dark green slacks and a blouse she seemed too old for, and she brought me a present—some of those little knitted soap holders I never use.</p>

  <p class="indent">We waited for her bags forever. She had two great big brown leather suitcases and one little one. Lord knows what all she had in there—for just one week.</p>

  <p class="indent">To get from the airport to Listre you have to go through Bethel, so on the way home we stopped in at Mama’s for a few minutes. Mama had insisted, and I thought it was a good idea.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_62"></a>Mama and Aunt Naomi were there, sitting in the living room, talking. They had been to a sale at Belks.</p>

  <p class="indent">Everybody said hello to everybody and we all sat down and Mama said something about the sale. She got a navy blue bedspread for forty percent off and Aunt Naomi got a throw rug and two lamp shades for half price. Then they mentioned that on the way back from the sale they’d stopped by the funeral home to see Hattie Rigsbee who had died of a stroke the day before.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She looked so good,” Mama said. “Her skin was clear, good color, no swelling.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve seen them awful swelled,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it happens worse when they have a heart attack and nobody gets there right away. I remember Wingate Bryant looked awful. They figured he died right after he went to bed, laid there all night and when Rose got up to go to work she figured he was still asleep, until she brought him a plate of spaghetti at lunch and there he was: still in bed. She worked at the school cafeteria,” she said to Millie, “across the street, and would bring him a plate of whatever they had. He was retired. From the telephone company.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember that,” says Mama. “You know, I do believe Hattie Rigsbee, today, was about the best looking corpse I’ve ever seen.” She looked straight at Millie, then at Charles, to get them in the conversation.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stands up and walks to the kitchen. I could tell he was mad about something; but Lord knows, I didn’t know what, and I hoped Mama and Aunt Naomi and Millie hadn’t noticed.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me put on some coffee,” I said, “and see if I can rustle <a id="page_63"></a>up some cookies.” I followed Charles on back to the kitchen and whispered, “Charles, what in the world is the matter with you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s the matter?” he whispers, staring. “What’s the matter? Did you hear what she said?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who?” I whispered.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who? Who? Your mother.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?” he whispers louder. “About the corpse looking good and all that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I guess I did. I was sitting there, won’t I? What in the world was wrong with that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it? It’s uncivilized—that’s what’s wrong with it. Raney, the body in the funeral home is not the person. It’s the person’s body. Why can’t your mother talk about the person, for God’s sake?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t you use profanity in this kitchen. And don’t get uppity because your mother’s here. What do you expect? They were being respectful of Hattie Rigsbee. That’s all. I’ll bet you didn’t even know she died.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Respect is not the word. Morbid is the word. No, I didn’t know Hattie Rigsbee died. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee was <em>born.</em>”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you should have. You been living around here long enough.” I was looking for cookies as hard as I could.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, we don’t live around here. We live in Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">About that time I heard Mama coming down the hall. She came on in the kitchen. “Look, it’s no need to mess with coffee,” she said. “Mrs. Shepherd says she needs to get on over to ya’ll’s house and get settled. Next Sunday you’re all invited <a id="page_64"></a>over here after church for dinner. Her airplane don’t leave until six-thirty so it’ll work out just right. And we can all go to church together Sunday morning.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We drove home and got Millie and all her bags settled in the guest room. I’d planned to fix a meatloaf for supper but remembered Sunday about her being a vegetarian. Charles said to fix omelettes but I’d never cooked a omelette so I had to call Madora for a recipe. I practiced Sunday night, so the real thing Monday night turned out pretty good. Millie helped.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had cooked—of all things—one of Aunt Flossie’s apple pies. He got her to show him exactly how to cook one—he likes them so much. After his mama had a piece she raved about it and asked <em>me</em> what the recipe was. That Charles just sat there smiling and did not say one thing until I explained to Millie that Charles fixed it, not me. She thought I was kidding until Charles talked through about the ingredients and how you fix it. I didn’t dare mention that I hadn’t ever taken on any kind of pie. This one was good. It was a little tart, but it was good.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was just beginning to relax when Millie asks, “Is there an Episcopal church nearby?” I had forgot about her changing over to the Episcopals.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There’s one in White Level,” says Charles. “Sara—at the library—goes there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re more than welcome to come to our church,” I said. “And since we’re going to eat at Mama’s, we’ll be close by.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really like the formality of the Episcopal service,” says Millie. “I’ve gotten used to it. Charles, give them a call this week and if they’re celebrating Eucharist Sunday morning at around ten or eleven, I could slip over for that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_65"></a>I didn’t know what a Eucharist was. Likely as not they’d be celebrating something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Or,” she says, “if you two like, you could come along with me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I could go to an Episcopal church,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why not?” they both said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’re against some of the things we believe in most.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, they serve real wine at the Lord’s supper. And they have priests, don’t they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes,” said Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I don’t especially approve of the way priests drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Jesus drank—if that’s what you mean—as I understand it,” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, he turned the water into wine at the wedding feast.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, but that was grape juice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Grape juice?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus turned water into wine on the spot,” I said, “it had to be grape juice because it didn’t have time to ferment.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a pause.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus could make wine,” says <em>Charles</em> (you could tell whose side he was on), “he could just as easily make it fermented as not, couldn’t he? Why mess around with half a miracle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve been going to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church for twenty-four years now,” I said, “and Mr. Brooks, Mr. Tolley, Mr. Honneycutt, and all these other men have been studying the Bible for all their lives and they say it’s grape juice. All added together they’ve probably studied the Bible over a hundred years. I’m not going to sit in my own kitchen and go against that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_66"></a>“But there are Buddhist monks,” says Charles, “who have studied religion for an accumulation of millions of years and they say Jesus was only a holy man and not the son of God. You can find anybody who’s studied something for X number of years. I’m not sure what that proves.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“These Buddhist monks were not studying the Bible,” I said. “They were studying the <em>Koran</em>. We talked about that in Sunday School.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they were studying the <em>Koran,</em>” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You’re talking about Islam.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, the point is: I’m not talking about the Bible. If it’s not in the Bible I’m not interested in it because if I have to stop believing in the Bible I might as well stop living on earth.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Here, let’s get the dishes washed up,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I appreciate your faith—I guess it’s a small matter anyway. Sometimes I think we spend too much time on relatively picky religious matters.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It won’t no <em>picky</em> matter to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">While we were cleaning up I saw where Charles got his habit of taking the strainer out of the sink and leaving it out, and turning on the faucet and leaving it on. But I didn’t say anything. She was nice to help.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we finished cleaning up, somebody knocked on the front door. That durn TEA Club meeting. I felt like I hadn’t had time to get my bearings.</p>

  <p class="indent">The meeting was something, and Millie joined in just like she knew everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was this woman dressed in rags who brought her <a id="page_67"></a>baby in a sack on her back. Looked like she’d just walked away from a plane crash with her baby all tangled up in her clothes. What’s more, she was cock-eyed. Looked like she was looking in two directions at once. Like those pictures of John Kennedy.</p>

  <p class="indent">There were more unusual people there. But listen to what the meeting was about: they all, including Charles, and his mama, just flown in from Atlanta, are dead set against the Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant being built north of here.</p>

  <p class="indent">That takes a lot a gall. These scientists have been working for years to get this plant built and Charles and these, well . . . a couple of them looked like hippies to me, and there was a doctor and two college teachers who looked like they don’t eat right and the one with the baby—they all get together and in about fifteen minutes decide that the nuclear power plant has got to go. Has got to <em>go</em>, mind you.</p>

  <p class="indent">They haven’t hurt anything at the power plant. And electricity certainly has to come from somewhere.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was in Pope’s the other day and the mayor, Mr. Crenshaw, was talking to Mrs. Moss. He said the power plant was the best thing that ever happened to Listre—that it would bring new jobs and make taxes lower.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now he’s the mayor. He’s somebody I can listen to. Somebody with a respectable position in the community who <em>has</em> to know what he’s talking about, else he wouldn’t be mayor.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes I believe these hippies and college professors sit around and frown and complain about what’s helping a community most.</p>

  <p class="indent">Look at the war. These hippies and such were telling the people who knew the most about it how to run it. So we lost. Now they’re doing the same thing with this power plant. Do <a id="page_68"></a>you see the people from the power plant telling the hippies how to be hippies? No, because they don’t know anything about it. So they keep their mouths shut.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles told me I could come up front to the meeting but I stayed back in the kitchen. After about thirty minutes, Millie did come back and talk to me about how nice Charles and me had fixed up the house. She had a glass of wine, but that’s the only one she drunk as far as I know. I never thought I’d see wine under a roof I lived under. Live and learn. I won’t be a prude; but I do have principles and I will certainly keep close guard on what goes on. We’re not going to have any alcohol under this roof for more than twelve hours, and otherwise only on some special occasions of Charles’s. And when we have a child we’ll have to discuss the whole thing very seriously. I never saw a drop of alcohol at home except in a bottle Uncle Nate brought in.</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Millie about Charles painting the living room and she thought it was funny about not being able to find any drapes to go with the old paint. She said Charles had a good “role model” for fixing up around the house because Bill, Dr. Shepherd, had always helped her. I thought about Daddy. He’s never done anything, as far as I can remember, inside the house. He works outside, but not inside. I don’t think Mama wants him working in the house. She certainly never lets anybody do anything in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles won’t do a thing outside but pull up crabgrass out of the sidewalk cracks once in a while. I don’t know why he gets such a kick out of that. I think it’s connected somehow to his strange ideas about germs. He buys these big jars of alcohol to clean the bathroom sink with. I’ve seen him through the bathroom door—through the crack. He’ll scrub around the <a id="page_69"></a>hole in the bottom of the sink with a ball of cotton soaked in alcohol. Lord knows where else he scrubs. I’ll bet he goes through a bottle of alcohol every two weeks. I go in there some mornings and it smells like County Hospital. I started to ask Millie about that but I didn’t. Maybe he got it from her. (It’s funny what all you find out about your husband after you get married.)</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished the meeting, Charles came back to the kitchen and showed me this letter they wrote with Charles’s name signed. Charles asked me what I thought. I said if they all wrote it, why didn’t they all sign it? This is the letter. Millie told him a couple of words to change.</p>

  <p class="noindent1"><small>DEAR EDITOR:</small></p>

  <p class="indent">A state geologist has recently claimed that an area near the proposed Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant is ideal for a hazardous waste disposal site. One of the reasons given is the low population of the area. I suppose the reasoning is that if there are problems, then fewer people will suffer.</p>

  <p class="indent">It occurs to me that any reason to NOT put something in a highly populated area should also be a good reason NOT to put it in an area of low population.</p>

  <p class="indent">The sad fact is that problems of nuclear waste disposal are not solved. This generation should not be making decisions that will cause future generations to suffer horrible consequences.</p>

  <p class="right"><em>Charles Shepherd</em></p>

  <p class="indent">Charles took off work Tuesday afternoon; we took his mama to the airport; and when we got back home we had a little talk which turned into a argument.</p>

  <p class="indent">I merely asked Charles why he has to be friends with these college professors and such—why he can’t be friends with my friends. He went with me <em>once</em> to see Madora and her husband, Larry. And Sandra and Billy Ferrell have asked us over for supper twice and he wouldn’t go either time. I know they won’t ask us again.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_70"></a>“<em>These</em> people <em>think,</em>” he says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Think?” I said. “Who <em>don’t</em> think? Everybody thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean think about something important, something beyond the confines of their own lives.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What is that supposed to mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means getting beyond Listre and Bethel. That’s what it means. Raney, the way it works is this: small people talk about themselves; mediocre people talk about other people; and thinking people talk about ideas.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with anything?” I said. See, what happens is: Charles spouts out this stuff he’s read in the library and expects the words to be formed in gold in my head. But I’m sorry.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It has to do with who I want to be friends with,” says Charles. “Madora and—what’s his name?—Larry are not interested in anything outside their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll have you know,” I said, “that Madora and Larry go to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church. Don’t tell me that Jesus Christ is only in their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The problem,” says Charles, “the whole problem is just that: Jesus wouldn’t have a kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He would if he lived in Bethel.” I tried to let that sink in. “No matter what your mama thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why are you bringing her into this?” (I wasn’t sure.) “Raney. Jesus Christ was a radical. If the people at Bethel Free Will Baptist met Jesus they’d laugh at him . . . or lynch him.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_71"></a>“A radical? Charles, I had a personal experience with Jesus Christ when I was twelve years old. He wasn’t a radical then. And I did not laugh. As a matter of fact, I cried.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Were you saved, Raney? Is that it? Were you saved and now you’re going to heaven and nothing else matters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, and I was mad, “you can run down whoever and whatever you want to, but when you run down my experience with Jesus Christ you are putting yourself below the belly of a hog.” I was tore up. I had to cry. I walked out of the kitchen, into the bedroom and slammed the door with both hands as hard as I could; and Charles goes out the front door and drives off. And didn’t come back for thirty minutes.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_8">VII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We didn’t speak Wednesday or Thursday, but had started warming up some on Friday. Then Friday night we went to see a movie—some awful thing Charles wanted to see—and then Saturday morning the Sneeds business was all over <em>The Hansen County Pilot</em>. As I said, Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Sneeds Perry. I don’t know him except from when I go in the store. He’s always seemed nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">What he did was get arrested in Raleigh at two <small>A.M</small>. Friday night for trying to pick up this woman he <em>thought</em> was a you-know-what but instead was a policewoman. They caught him red-handed. And then the whole subject had to come up at Sunday dinner with Mrs.—, with Millie, there visiting.</p>

  <p class="indent">She came back Saturday night on the airplane, which was <a id="page_72"></a>late, and I could of sworn I smelled liquor on her breath. Then we had to wait for all those suitcases, which we loaded into the trunk and carted home and into the guest room again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had found out that the Episcopal service started at 10:30 <small>A.M.</small> Sunday and that they were having that Eucharist, so they decided they’d go for sure and Millie wanted to know if I was going with them. They seemed like they wanted me to, so I said yes. I wanted to see what the service was like, if nothing else.</p>

  <p class="indent">The service was the most unusual church service you’ve ever seen. First of all, I didn’t know any of the hymns, and <em>neither did the regular people there</em>. You’d expect the regular people there to know their own hymns. They wandered all around on notes that didn’t have anything to do with the melody and, all in all, didn’t sing with any spunk. And they kept kneeling on these teenie-tiny benches. It was up and down, up and down. I got right nervous looking out the corner of my eye to see when it was up and when it was down.</p>

  <p class="indent">The priest had a yellow robe with a butterfly on the back. Now that is plum sacrilegious if you ask me. A house of worship is no place to play Halloween.</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the most surprising things of all was that the very thing you come to church to hear wasn’t there. A sermon. There was no sermon. The priest talked about three minutes on hope and people in the ghettos, which may have been a sermon to him, but not to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">They had the Lord’s supper, but they didn’t pass it around. You had to go up front, kneel down (of course), and get it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was a little nervous about drinking real wine in church. But when I thought about it I ended up figuring maybe that <a id="page_73"></a>was the best place to do it and God would forgive me. It was red wine and about knocked my socks off. It was stronger somehow than Madora’s white wine and that expensive stuff that I tried in the kitchen at Charles’s TEA party. (That bottle had the price tag on it. Six dollars and something. It seemed like to me it should have cost less because it kind of disappeared once you got it in your mouth.) I want you to know the priest gulped down every bit that was left over at the end. That was an education to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">All in all, it just wasn’t <em>set up</em> like a church service. I must admit, several people were nice after the service, but most of them had Yankee accents. They were probably people who’ve come down to work at the new G.E. plant outside White Level.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said he liked it—that it was “formal.” I didn’t see anything formal about it. It was confusing to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie were at Mama’s for Sunday dinner, along with the rest of us. Everybody seemed happy to see Millie and she seemed likewise. I was a little tense. For one thing I was worried that the Sneeds business would come up, but I figured it wouldn’t—not at Sunday dinner.</p>

  <p class="indent">We got seated, Mama asked Charles to say the blessing; he did; and we started helping ourselves.</p>

  <p class="indent">I passed the okra to Aunt Naomi. She helped her plate and says, “You want some okra, son?” and passed the bowl to Charles. “We won’t get much more this year.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, thanks,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No? You don’t like okra?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nope.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_74"></a>“Well, I declare. That’s surprising. Have you ever had it fried before?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I can’t remember. I don’t think so. I’ve had it boiled.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hadn’t ever fried any okra for this boy?” Mama says to Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’ve never been much on okra, somehow,” says Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you ain’t had nothing until you’ve had some good fried okra,” says Aunt Naomi, and she drops a piece onto Charles’s plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember when I was a little girl no older than Mary Faye there,” says Aunt Naomi. “I couldn’t stand boiled okra because it was so slimy. For some reason, that’s the only way my mama ever fixed it. So I know what you mean. Then when I was, oh, about a teenager, I got aholt of some good fried okra. Mercy me—better than pop corn, with just a tiny hint of fried oyster flavor. Do you like fried oysters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do,” said Charles. He was staring at the piece of fried okra on his plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pop corn?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, then, you’ll love fried okra. Go ahead, try it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Aw, go ahead. You’ll love it; I guarantee. Then when you go home your mama can fix it for you, can’t you, Millie?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles ate the piece of okra. It <em>was</em> good okra.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now, ain’t that good?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was pretty good,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi gets the bowl and hands it to Charles. “Well, here, get you out some.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_75"></a>“No thanks,” said Charles. “I’m just fine. I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I declare,” says Aunt Naomi. “I’m surprised. I thought for sure you’d love it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the bowl back and Daddy asked him if he saw the Braves game Saturday and they started talking while Aunt Naomi says, “I don’t know what I’d do without my fried okra. That and turnip salet. Why I could make a meal off turnip salet and cornbread, two meals a day for a month. There just ain’t <em>nothing</em> any better. Nothing. Doris, your favorite was always cabbage, won’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I always liked turnip salet too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I hate it,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hate everything,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll went to the Episcopal church in White Level?” says Aunt Naomi. She was looking at Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did. It was really nice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they have a priest like the Catholics?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, they do,” said Millie. “I think their duties might be a bit different, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they make them preach in a certain town where they assign them—like in the army?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They don’t,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made many a meal on turnip salet and cornbread,” says Uncle Nate. He had his hair slicked straight back, like <a id="page_76"></a>always, and was wearing a white starched shirt with the collar open. “And Aunt Annie’s nigger, Monkey—remember how he used to all the time talk about drinking turnip green pot liquor?”</p>

  <p class="indent">That got Charles’s and Millie’s attention. I was afraid Charles was going to go into his speech about saying “nigger” but he didn’t, thank goodness. And Millie didn’t, thank goodness. (Charles is sitting there with a big hunk of cream potatoes on his plate, no gravy, two pieces of chicken, a piece of roast beef, a pickle and a piece of cornbread and a roll. No vegetables. He will not get any healthy recipes from Aunt Flossie: only apple pie, fried chicken, and such. It’s a wonder he don’t get pimples—again. You can tell where he had them a little bit when he was a teenager. Pock marks. I can’t imagine how he gets his system cleaned out. It looks like somebody who works in a library would have more sense about what to eat. And Charles ain’t the type to shun new things. His mother, of course, had just the opposite: a plate full of vegetables.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s pot liquor?” says Charles to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate had his mouth full, which don’t usually stop him from talking—as Charles has pointed out to me on the way home so many times that now <em>I</em> notice. But this time he kept chewing and didn’t answer.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie answered: “It’s what’s left in the pot after cooking cabbage—usually cabbage. Course I’ve seen collard and turnip green pot liquor.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That sounds interesting,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?” asks Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” said Uncle Nate, swallowing his potatoes, <a id="page_77"></a>“Uncle Springer took Monkey to Raleigh one Christmas to sell quail and they—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, that was just his name, I reckon. Anyway, they got snowed in and there was a light bulb in the room where they spent the night in somebody’s house. For some reason Monkey ended up staying with Uncle Springer in the same room. Anyway, Uncle Springer hadn’t ever seen a light bulb and of course Monkey hadn’t and they didn’t know it had a durn switch on it to cut it off and so before they went to bed—I imagine Monkey slept on the floor—before they went to bed they put a chest of drawers up on another table and some chairs and so on and put the durn light bulb—course they didn’t know it unscrewed either—they put the durn light bulb in the top drawer and closed it and then went to bed and got a good night’s sleep.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d heard that story once or twice but I knew Charles and Millie hadn’t. It’s a funny story but of course Charles don’t like to hear nothing about niggers unless it’s how Martin Luther King laid down in some restaurant or something. As I said, he has this thing.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wadn’t that terrible about Sneeds Perry?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything. Somebody passed something and a few forks hit plates.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to Mr. Perry?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything and Norris looked around at everybody. “What happened to Mr. Perry?” he said again.</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed through my mind: Sneeds paying one of those women to do what Charles had said for us to do on our honeymoon. “He got in trouble,” I said. “For being where he ought not to be and doing what he ought not to do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_78"></a>“What did he do?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He solicited something from a policewoman which he thought he was soliciting from a woman of the night,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“A witch?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I wouldn’t say that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think if a man wants to ruin his life in one night by breaking the law, then that’s the chance he takes,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you think he wanted to ruin his life?” said Charles. “That’s not exactly what he had in mind, do you think?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what happened,” said Aunt Naomi. “Now he won’t be able to get a job within fifty miles—at any place respectable that is. It’s a good thing he don’t have a family.” Aunt Naomi looked at Daddy. “You will have to let him go.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t decided,” said Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy, he was arrested,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re going to let him keep working out at the store?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I hadn’t thought about—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, you read what he did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know I read what he did. He ain’t been tried yet either.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He won’t buying peaches,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Peaches?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “it seems like he’d hurt business with a criminal record.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s a misdemeanor, I think,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s a misdemeanor?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush a minute, Norris,” said Mama. “It’s a minor crime.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_79"></a>“What did he do?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He didn’t do anything that would have been a great harm to anybody,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought, “<em>Charles</em>, you talk about <em>harm</em>, about <em>not harming</em>—after that on our honeymoon!”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He broke God’s law, that’s what he did,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought for sure you’d fire him, Thurman,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not going to fire a man that ain’t been convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We were quiet for a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Didn’t your church group do a thing on victimless crimes?” Charles asked his mama. “It’s a pretty interesting perspective.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes. The idea was, really, that some acts—without victims—ought to have a low priority on the list of things demanding law enforcement. That is, those crimes would be attended only after the crimes with victims were tended to. That way people would actually be better protected in the long run, because the police would spend more time solving robbery and assault cases and the like, and institutions like churches and mental health clinics could concentrate on the victimless crimes—given the proper support, of course.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed in my mind again about what these prostitutes probably do, and I wondered if Mrs. Shepherd maybe had any idea, and I wondered what she thought about all that. She might think it’s okay! I wondered if some of Charles’s attitudes could have somehow come from her—if she had the same weakness Charles had. If Charles’s weakness came from her! I remembered her and Mr. Shepherd hugging and kissing in front of everybody at the wedding. Putting on like that. I wondered about all the connections. How can you tell? You can’t ask!</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_80"></a>“I don’t know what victims has to do with all this,” said Aunt Naomi. “You don’t need to have a victim to break the word of God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If a you-know-what is not a victim,” says Mama, “I don’t know who is—but I haven’t studied all that about different kinds of crimes.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “what if he is convicted? You’ll fire him then, won’t you? I mean if he’s convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see what difference it makes whether he’s convicted. He done it. Anybody knows that,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Daddy. “I’d want to wait and see what happens.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I had never thought about Daddy keeping somebody on the job who’d do something like that. But the problem is: it didn’t seem to make any difference to about half the table sitting in my own mama’s house for Sunday dinner, every one kin to me in some way. I don’t understand why people won’t take a stand where they ought to. Especially my own daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s your store,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Things got quiet again, except for forks hitting on dishes and Uncle Nate chewing with his mouth open.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Millie, did you hear about Norris getting the fishing hook hung in his nose at the beach?” said Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, I did. Charles told me on the phone. That must have been something. Were you afraid, Norris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was afraid when it first happened. I thought a bird or something had flew up my nose.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed and then Uncle Nate told about the time one of Uncle Springer’s boys told his little brother to stick his tongue to a froze ax. We’d all heard it but Millie and Charles hadn’t. That got Uncle Nate into telling about the first car <a id="page_81"></a>Uncle Springer ever saw that had a rear view mirror on the inside and Uncle Springer says, “I comb <em>my</em> hair <em>before</em> I leave home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Springer was the one who was so bashful that on his wedding night he peed down his leg into the pot so he wouldn’t make any noise. So they <em>say</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The stories eased the tension some. For me, anyway. We finished eating; Mama and Aunt Flossie cleaned up; then we sat and talked for awhile. At about two-thirty we left and drove home. I could tell Charles was getting tired of sitting and talking. Then at about five o’clock we took Millie and those big suitcases to the airport.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before she got on the plane, she gave me a big hug and a kiss. I hugged her back but didn’t have time to figure out where to kiss her before we’d turned each other loose. I’ve just never hugged and kissed people I don’t know real well. Or people I do know real well, for that matter.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_9">VIII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">It won’t Sneeds they arrested. It was Sam Perry, Sneeds’s first cousin. The newspaper got it mixed up because Sam signed Sneeds’s name and gave Sneeds’s address, and at the police station he actually had the driver’s license that Sneeds thought he’d lost. Daddy said Sam told Sneeds he didn’t want his wife and kids to find out and he figured Sneeds wouldn’t mind. Sneeds told Daddy that Sam had done the same thing before and so he wadn’t too surprised. I can’t believe somebody would do something like that to their own cousin.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_82"></a>I was in the store Saturday morning trying to figure out whether I should mention the whole thing to Sneeds when Charles called and said to call Mama. I did, and she wanted to know if I could come over and stay with Norris and Mary Faye that afternoon while she went to sit with Uncle Newton—while Aunt Minnie helped with the church barbecue. Aunt Minnie is Daddy’s sister and has had an awful time taking care of Uncle Newton. She has to stay with him all the time. Charles was supposed to play tennis that afternoon with somebody from the library, so I said I’d be glad to come over and help out.</p>

  <p class="indent">The only reason Mama wanted me to stay is because Uncle Nate had disappeared for two days and she was afraid he might come riding up in a Yellow Cab, drunk, with nobody at home but Mary Faye and Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I went over Saturday at about two. Right before Mama drove off she blew the police whistle for Mary Faye and Norris, who were up the road at Teresa Campbell’s house, to come on home. When she saw them coming—on their bicycles—she got in the car and drove off.</p>

  <p class="indent">She was just out of sight around the curve when Norris, going about fifty miles an hour, turned, or tried to turn, into the driveway—on his Piggly Wiggly Special (that bike he won at the Piggly Wiggly opening: with a row of little red glass rubies up and down the fenders, and a saddle bag, and black rubber mud flaps, and sticking right out front under where the handlebars come together, this solid cast, little brown and white pig head). He had just passed Mary Faye, <a id="page_83"></a>going as fast as he could, standing up. Then he sat back down and turned about one foot short of the edge of the driveway. The front wheel dipped into the ditch; the bike stopped; and he made a arc through the air—landing full on his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I got to him he was sitting on the ground looking at his right hand like he’d never seen it before. His thumb was drooped down like a broke tree limb, and where it connected to his hand looked like a golf ball.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye was standing there. “That thumb is broke, Norris. You can’t move it, can you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris looked up at her, then at me, then at his thumb, and started bawling. I gathered myself as best I could. “Come on,” I said. “We’ll take you to emergency, right now. Do you hurt anywhere else?” All I could do was take him to the emergency room. That was the only thing to do. His hand looked awful.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris said No he wadn’t hurting anywhere else, and stood up slow, crying, holding his hurt hand up and in front with his other hand like he was carrying a bunch of flowers.</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t walked no more than ten steps when a Yellow Cab pulls into the driveway. It was like the ocean had pulled in and was about to drown everything. I just stopped and stood there. “Oh <em>no</em>,” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll stay right here,” I said. It was clear I had to take over. I’d have to do what Mama would do, which was take over. I walked to the driver’s side of the taxi. The driver was a pale little man with short red and gray hair, a scrawny mustache, and no teeth. “Howdy,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Howdy, ma’am.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I looked through at Uncle Nate sitting on the passenger side. His head was down like he was asleep. “Uncle Nate, you <a id="page_84"></a>ought to be ashamed of yourself.” He didn’t even look up. “Mary Faye, ya’ll go on up and sit down on the porch. No, wait a minute. Go in and call Aunt Minnie and tell her to tell Mama, when she gets there, to come back home and sit with Uncle Nate—that it looks like Norris broke his thumb and I got to take him to emergency. Tell her his thumb is all that’s hurt. Tell her it might just be out of place. Ask Aunt Minnie if she minds being a little late for the barbecue.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know the number.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s in that address thing—under Minnie.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir,” I said to the cab driver. “Can you wait one minute while I figure out what to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No problem. Meter’s running.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, I ought to call the sheriff right now. If I didn’t have to take care of Norris, I would.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked up. “Where’s Doris at?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s on the way to Aunt Minnie’s, to sit with Uncle Newton.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How’s ole Newt?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s okay, I guess. He’s <em>sober</em>. That’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Me and Newt were in the war together,” Uncle Nate said to the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, he don’t care. Can you get out? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. I’m in the middle of Norris’s broke thumb and here you show up, drunk, and probably without one cent. Have you got any money?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stuck his hand down in his front pocket.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He said his sister would pay,” said the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I figured,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye came out. “The line’s busy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris was sitting on the front steps. He started crying, and <a id="page_85"></a>then hollering. “Oh, it’s starting to hurt! Ohhhh!” He was holding his hand down between his legs, rocking back and forth, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Elevate it—hold it up,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They might have to take it off,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was standing there in the front yard, knowing I had to make a decision. I decided Uncle Nate would have to go to the emergency room with us. There was nothing else to do. I went around to the passenger side and opened the door. Or I could call the sheriff. Or I could send him over to Uncle Newton’s in the taxi and let Mama look after him. No, that would get Uncle Newton all upset. But Uncle Nate was about asleep. That was good. I figured if he’d stay in the car at emergency, everything would be okay.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir, would you please help me get him in the back seat of my car over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yeah, I’ll help,” said the cab driver. “That’s a broke thumb if ever I seen one.” He’d caught a glimpse of Norris’s thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know. I’ve got to get him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We got Uncle Nate out of the taxi and into the back seat of my car. He went right on down, laying on his side in the seat with his feet in the floor. His shirt tail was out on the side and his hair was pushed up in back with little flecks of white thread or something all in there.</p>

  <p class="indent">I paid the taxi driver; Norris and Mary Faye got in the car, up front with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stopped crying about halfway to the emergency room, and when we turned into the hospital driveway, Uncle Nate sat up. “Is Newt up here?” he said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Newton’s at home, Uncle Nate. Norris hurt his thumb and we’re having to take him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_86"></a>“Less see that thumb, boy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris held up his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, that ain’t nothing.” He leaned up right behind me. “Raney.” I could smell his breath. I was almost afraid of him. I had this flash thought of him grabbing me around the neck, although Uncle Nate is normally pretty gentle, drunk or sober, except when he’s drunk and gets mad and cusses. “Raney, where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at Uncle Newton’s. I told you a minute ago.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We pulled the car up close to the emergency room door and stopped. “Now, Uncle Nate, you stay right here. I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Does Mary Faye and Norris remember me and Newt were in the war together?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yessir,” I said. “Now please stay in the the back seat, Uncle Nate. Will you do that? I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I certainly will. You know I love you, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I got out and came around and opened the door for Norris. He had stopped crying. He got out, holding his hand up with that thumb dangling, and we all started in, except for Uncle Nate. I looked back. He was sitting with his head slumped over.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the emergency room door, I said, “Mary Faye, stand right here at the door, and if Uncle Nate gets out of the car, you come in and tell me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to go in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mary Faye.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I won’t know where you’re at,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, what are they going to do to it?” says Norris, looking up at me with bloodshot eyes.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Norris.” I looked at Mary Faye. “Do what you have to do, Mary Faye—for goodness sakes. They’re going to fix it, Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_87"></a>We all three went in through the door. Some people were sitting in chairs and there was a big nurse across the room at a desk. Two nigger orderlies were sitting behind her—smoking cigarettes and wearing those little green scarf hats with strings hanging down beside their ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked up to the desk. The nurse asked a bunch of questions and about time I finished answering them all I hear this loud, banging crash behind me at the door. I look, and there’s Uncle Nate: sitting on the floor, half in and half out the emergency room door. Some woman wearing a dress, brown shoes, and white socks jumped up and rushed over to him. I started toward him, but Norris almost hollered, “Raney, wait a minute, what are they going to do? It hurts!” The orderlies stood up to look at Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman with white socks said, “This man needs help! His eyeballs is rolled back!” The orderlies started running toward Uncle Nate, pushing a table-bed. I heard the woman say, “I think he had a stroke,” and before I could say anything—Norris was holding on to my arm with his good hand—the orderlies had Uncle Nate on the bed, rolling him right by me. “Wait a minute, he’s my uncle!” I said. They stopped. And here Uncle Nate sort of came around and started cussing the orderlies terrible.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate stop that right now or I’m going to call Dorcus Kerr to come get you and take you to jail. You all unstrap him from there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That woman said he had a stroke,” said one orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t let him off there,” said the other one.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you were with this boy,” said the nurse to me.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_88"></a>“Raney, I don’t want to get it operated on,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You <em>better</em> be <em>quiet</em>,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m with both of them,” I said to the nurse. “This one’s drunk; he didn’t have a stroke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the orderlies pulled a strap tighter on Uncle Nate. Uncle Nate was cussing him awful. “And where you got Newt?” he said to the one closest to his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t got no Newt. What you talking about, man?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young woman, we’re not equipped to handle alcoholism,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I didn’t bring him to the emergency room,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who brought this man?” said the nurse to everybody in the emergency room. Then she said to me. “Is your mother here?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris pulled at my arm. The woman with the white socks came walking up. “I thought he might a had a stroke,” she said. “His eyes was rolled back and all. It was that way with my granddaddy. He had a stroke last year and when—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I brought him,” I said, “but I left him in the car and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney!” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Somebody has to take care of his thumb,” I said to the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got papers in on him,” said the nurse. “The doctor will be here in a minute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you feel?” said the woman with socks—to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel like if I don’t get off this goddamned table in five seconds, I’m gone whip ass when I do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m gonna strap your ass down so tight your eyeballs’ll pop out,” said the orderly. “Then I’m calling the police.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_89"></a>“<em>I’ll</em> call the law,” I said. “You don’t know who to call.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The hell I don’t.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Jerry,” said the nurse. “I’ll call Security.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Call the goddamned Security,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was Mary Faye and Norris standing there hearing all that.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, please be quiet. You’re in trouble. Don’t make it worse.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was in trouble when I was born.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not like you gonna be,” said the orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stop egging him on,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked the doctor, thank the Lord. The nurse was on the phone: “Donald, send somebody to emergency. We’ve got a man disturbing the peace.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s his name?” said the doctor. He was picking up a clipboard.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ask her,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">The doctor looked at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate,” I said. “Nate Purvis.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s your uncle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me see that thumb, Nate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Norris,” Norris said, his eyes great big.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Excuse me, Norris. Let me see that thumb.” He held Norris by the wrist and turned his hand around. “Hummm. Let’s go get an x-ray. <em>This</em> man is your uncle, then,” he said to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir, and he’s drunk. He shouldn’t even be in here. I left him outside.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Have you got a car?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_90"></a>“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Joe Cisco,” he said. He smiled and reached out his hand. “Looks like you could use a little help.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I took his hand, tried my best to hold back, but I couldn’t help crying. I straightened right back up though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be right back and we can get him in your car,” he said. Then he took Norris down the hall; Norris looked back over his shoulder—still holding that hand up like he was carrying flowers; the nurse asked the orderlies to sit down; and then Dr. Cisco came back while they were taking the x-ray. He helped me roll Uncle Nate to the car, then get him off the table and in the back seat—with no trouble, since Uncle Nate had passed out. I saw the empty pint in Uncle Nate’s back pocket. I hadn’t thought to look before. When a security guard walked up, Dr. Cisco explained that everything was all right. Dr. Cisco was a blessing from heaven.</p>

  <p class="indent">He told us to wait in the car and that after he took care of Norris he’d bring him out. Sometimes I get to thinking there’s not one nice person left in the world and then somebody like Dr. Cisco comes along.</p>

  <p class="indent">It turned out that Norris’s thumb was just out of place. It must have been very out of place. Dr. Cisco taped it up over a piece of metal and told me to bring him back in a week unless a problem came up. He stood there at the car and talked a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate won’t so simple. He begged me to take him to the liquor store, saying he just needed one more little drink to hold him over. I did not take him, of course.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got home he was asleep or passed out. I left him in the car while I called Mama. She called Juanita Bowles to come sit with Uncle Newton and then came on home. We had a terrible time getting Uncle Nate up the front steps.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_91"></a>Daddy came home right after we got Uncle Nate in the door. “Nate, you’re going to get drunk one time too many and get robbed <em>and</em> shot instead of just robbed,” said Daddy. Uncle Nate’s billfold is always empty when he comes home drunk. Uncle Nate started cussing Daddy, which is the first time that’s ever happened, as far as I know.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama called Dorcus Kerr who came out and arrested Uncle Nate. There was nothing else to do. Uncle Nate spent three days in jail, drying out. That’s how long it takes. Mama took him every one of his meals except his last one which was Tuesday lunch. I had to be uptown anyway so I told Mama I could do it and then bring him home when they let him out at three in the afternoon. I’m old enough now.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dorcus Kerr was at the jail. “I declare, I hate to see this happen, Raney,” he said. “When he’s sober he’s one of the nicest men I know, but I declare, then he has to go and do the way he does; and you all have always been so good to him—your daddy giving him work and all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t see anybody else in any of the jail cells except Uncle Nate. He was sitting in a chair, leaning back against the wall. His hair was combed straight back with Vitalis, like always, and he was wearing a freshly starched white shirt Mama had brought him. Mr. Kerr opened the door with a big set of keys.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hey, girl,” said Uncle Nate. “Where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He looked okay except for his eyes which were red and cloudy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_92"></a>“How do you feel?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel pretty good. Raney, I’m sorry. You know I wouldn’t do anything in the world to hurt you all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know you wouldn’t, Uncle Nate.” I started to say, “But you <em>do—over and over and over.</em>” Then I saw his hand shaking while he pulled at his ear.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made a decision this time. I’m quitting. I’m getting the shakes. Look at my hands. I can’t get them any stiller than that. I’m just going to have to tell myself to quit and then do it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know you can’t take that first drink, Uncle Nate. It’s all over when you do that. You’ve got to have the strength to say no. There’s plenty of people who do it. And Mama has done everything she can, as you well know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has. She has. She sure has.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m glad you’re going to stop, Uncle Nate. You’ve said that before, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“This is the first time I’ve had the shakes like this. Look at that.” He looked at his hands, then at me. “How is Newton? Didn’t somebody take him to the hospital Sunday—or Saturday?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nobody took him to the hospital, but he’s not doing too good. That was Norris I took. He knocked his thumb out of joint, but it’s doing okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a little fighter, ain’t he?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He sure is. Here, you better eat your dinner. I’ll be back at three. I need to do a little shopping. You need anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some Scholl’s footpads. Size 9-C.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I came back at three and picked up Uncle Nate and took him by home and then on out to the store. He usually works <a id="page_93"></a>out there in the afternoons. He’s never been able to do any more than just help out, of course, but it helps Daddy be able to come and go and oversee instead of being there with Sneeds all the time—one of them tending pumps while the other works inside. When Daddy had a chance to get all self-service pumps he turned them down, so he needs Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_94"></a></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-06-14 20:42:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:42:27 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-06-14 20:42:52 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-06-14 20:42:52 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:42:52 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-06-14 20:42:53 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:42:55 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-06-14 20:42:56 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:42:56 INFO  - Step 22 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-06-14 20:42:56 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:42:58 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:42:59 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:42:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-14 20:43:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:00 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Raney</title>
  <link href="../Styles/9781616202132.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
<p><a id="part01"></a></p>
  <h2 class="h2" id="part1"><a id="page_1"></a>PART ONE<br />
  <br />
  <em>Blood Kin</em></h2>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_2"></a></p>

  <p class="center"><a id="page_3"></a>LISTRE, NORTH CAROLINA<br />
  APRIL 18, 1975</p>

  <p class="centert"><small>FROM THE</small> <em>Hansen County Pilot</em>:</p>

  <p class="noindent">BETHEL—Mr. and Mrs. Thurman A. Bell announce the engagement of their daughter, Raney, to Charles C. Shepherd of Atlanta, Georgia. Mr. Bell owns the Hope Road General Store and the family attends Bethel Baptist Church. Raney graduated from Chester F. Knowles High School where she was in the school band and various other activities. She attended Listre Community College.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles Shepherd, the son of Dr. and Mrs. William Shepherd of Atlanta, is the assistant librarian at Listre Community College. Dr. Shepherd is a college professor, while Mrs. Shepherd is a public school teacher.</p>

  <p class="indent">A June 7th wedding is planned at Bethel Baptist Church. A reception will follow in the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">The couple plans to honeymoon at Myrtle Beach and live in Listre at 209 Catawba Drive.</p>

  <h3 class="h3a" id="heading_id_2"><a id="page_4"></a>I</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We get married in two days: Charles and me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s parents are staying at the Ramada—wouldn’t stay with any of us—and today me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie ate lunch with Charles’s mother, Mrs. Shepherd. And found out that she’s, of all things, a vegetarian.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at the K and W. Mrs. Shepherd wanted to eat at some place we could sit down and order—like a restaurant—but Aunt Naomi strongly suggested the K and W. She said the K and W would be more reasonable and the line wouldn’t be long on a Thursday. So we ate at the K and W.</p>

  <p class="indent">I got meatloaf, Mama got meatloaf (they have unusually good meatloaf—not bready at all), Aunt Naomi got turkey, Aunt Flossie got roast beef, and Mrs. Shepherd, Mrs. Shepherd didn’t get any meat at all. She got the vegetable plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got seated Mama says, “I order the vegetable plate every once in a while myself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, did you get the vegetable plate?” says Aunt Naomi to Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I’ve stopped eating meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all looked at her.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got involved in a group in Atlanta which was putting together programs on simple living and after a few programs I became convinced that being a vegetarian—me, that is—made sense.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Somehow I thought people were <em>born</em> as vegetarians. I never thought about somebody just <em>changing over</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_5"></a>“What kind of group was that?” asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Several Episcopal women. I’m originally Methodist, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Naomi!” says this woman walking by holding her tray. “Good gracious, is this all your family?” Her husband went ahead and sat down about three tables over—picked a chair with arms.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It sure is,” says Aunt Naomi. “Let me introduce you. Opal Register, this is my sister-in-law, Doris Bell.” (That’s Mama.) “You know Doris, don’t you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, yes. I think we met in here one time. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is her daughter, Raney, who’s getting married Saturday.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mercy me,” says Mrs. Register. She had on big glasses with a chain, little brown curls on the top of her head, and too much lipstick. “You’re at the start of a wonderful journey, honey,” she says. “It was thirty-seven years for me and Carl the twenty-first of last month. I hope your journey is as happy and fulfilling as ours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Mrs. Millie Shepherd, the groom’s—groom-to-be’s—mother. She’s up from Atlanta, Georgia.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” says Mrs. Register.</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Flossie Purvis, Doris’s sister. And ya’ll, this is Opal and Carl Register,” said Aunt Naomi, pointing toward Mr. Register who had started eating over at his table. He smiled, with food in his mouth. You couldn’t see any though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” said Mrs. Register again. “You don’t know C. C. Lawrence, do you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think I do,” said Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“C. C. works at one of the big banks in Atlanta. He got a <a id="page_6"></a>law degree and a business degree—one right after the other. His mama and daddy didn’t think he’d ever finish—and them working at Liggett and Myers. He went—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Opal,” Mr. Register calls out. “Sit down and eat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, nice to have met you,” said Mrs. Register. “Good luck on that wonderful journey, honey,” she says to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Mrs. Register was out of hearing distance, Mama says, “Mr. Register just had a prostrate operation and I don’t think he’s recovered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Prostate,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is it?” says Mama. “Prostate? Oh. You know, I’ve always liked him better than her. She always makes so much out of every little thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The conversation went from the Registers to prostrate operations back around to eating meat.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” says Aunt Naomi, “once in a while I’ve gone without meat, but I got so weak I thought I’d pass out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, that happens a bit at first,” Mrs. Shepherd says. “But after a few days that usually goes away. It’s a matter of what you get used to, I think. The body adjusts.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d be afraid I couldn’t get enough proteins,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “There are many protein substitutes for meat. Beans—soybeans, for example—are excellent.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“My next door neighbor, Lillie Cox, brought me some hamburger with soybean in it,” said Aunt Naomi, “when I had the flu last winter, and it tasted like cardboard. She’s always trying out the latest thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I couldn’t do without my meat,” says Mama. She was fishing through her tossed salad for cucumber—and putting it on <a id="page_7"></a>her plate. “I’d be absolutely lost without sausage for breakfast. Cole’s sausage. The mild, not the hot. Do they have Cole’s in Atlanta?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so. I really don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you get the patties or the links?” Aunt Naomi asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“The patties—Thurman don’t like the links; they roll off his plate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed. Even Mrs. Shepherd, so Mama stretched it out. “Every time we go to Kiwanis for the pancake supper he’ll lose one or two links. Because of the way he eats his pancakes—pushes them all around in the syrup. Last time one rolled up under the edge of Sam Lockamy’s plate, and for a minute there we couldn’t find it. Then Sam swore it was his.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I guess you have less cholesterol if you don’t eat meat,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There are health advantages,” said Mrs. Shepherd. “And also our women’s group has been concentrating on how eating less meat can help curtail hunger in the third world.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“On another <em>planet</em>?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no. Developing nations,” says Mrs. Shepherd. She finished chewing and swallowed. “Developing nations.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I don’t understand,” says Aunt Naomi, “is that if they don’t eat their own cows, like in India, then why should we send them ours? They wouldn’t eat ours, would they? Or maybe they <em>would</em> eat American meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We wouldn’t send meat to India, of course; we’d send grain and other staple goods. The fewer cows we eat the less grain we’ll need to feed cows, so there will be a greater grain surplus.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_8"></a>Aunt Naomi blew her nose on this Kleenex she had been fumbling with. She had a cold. She can get more nose blows on one Kleenex than anybody I ever saw. She always ends up with this tiny corner which she slowly spreads out, then blows her nose into.</p>

  <p class="indent">We’d finished eating so I said, “Aunt Naomi, you get more nose blows out of one Kleenex than anybody I’ve ever seen in my life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I probably won’t be able to sing Sunday,” she said. She sings in the church choir. “This cold just drags on and on and on.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ain’t it nice the way Raney and Charles play music together,” says Mama to Mrs. Shepherd. I was relieved to get off the meat subject.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, it is,” says Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think it’s wonderful,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They sound real good together,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Music is what brought me and Charles together. He plays banjo and collects old songs from the mountains. When I sang for the faculty at the college Christmas dinner he was there—he’s the assistant librarian—and he came up afterward and complimented my singing. He was real nice about it. And has been ever since. Charles is the kind of person who is real natural around people—and is smart as he can be.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I met him again when I went to the library to check out a record. They have a good collection, thanks to Charles. One thing led to another and the first thing you know we’re playing music together. We’ve had three or four performances. Kiwanis and such. Charles calls them gigs.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles sent me a tape,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You two <a id="page_9"></a>sound really good together. You have a beautiful voice, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I thanked her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is learning to sing too. We harmonize on two or three songs. He’s improving gradually. He plays good banjo. He don’t <em>look</em> like a banjo picker, but he sounds good.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know what I’m going to do without Raney singing around the house, and helping out with Norris and Mary Faye,” says Mama, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mama, I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s a big gap between me and my little brother, Norris, and sister, Mary Faye. Norris is eight and Mary Faye is eleven. Mary Faye picks on Norris all the time, but sometimes he deserves it.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How many children do you have, Mrs. Shepherd?” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“One,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Please call me Millie,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “All of you,” she says, and smiles. “You too, Raney, if you’re comfortable with that. I have only one,” she says. “Charles is the only one.”</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_3">II</h3>

  <p class="noindent">You would think a man could get married without getting drunk, especially after I explained that nobody in my family drunk alcohol except Uncle Nate, who was in the Navy in World War II, but got burned in combat on over fifty percent <a id="page_10"></a>of his body, and caught pneumonia and had to be discharged from the Pacific. He had to stay in the hospital for three and a half months. Now he has asthma spells.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate comes to our house in a taxi at any hour of the day or night, drunk, cussing his former wife, who’s dead—Joanne. And when I say drunk, I mean so drunk he can’t get up the front steps without me and Mama and sometimes the taxi driver helping him. And smell?—Uncle Nate I’m talking about—whew. A sweat-whisky smell that lingers in the house as solid as flower smells at a funeral—lingers long after Mama’s undressed him, got him in the tub, and piled his clothes on the back porch. And the thing is, he don’t ever get asthma when he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye and Norris have to stand there in the middle of all that, being influenced in no telling what ways.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Uncle Nate’s sober he’s my favorite uncle. I love his stories about when he was growing up with Mama and Aunt Flossie and Uncle Norris (who lives in Charlotte) and their Uncle Pugg. And he always gives me presents and says I’m his favorite niece.</p>

  <p class="indent">He’s always lived with us and worked at Daddy’s store part time. His lung troubles make him disabled, so he gets a check every month from the government. They think he inhaled so much smoke he’ll never recover. The scars are mostly on his body under his clothes so you can’t ever see them except on his left wrist and under his left ear. He never talks about it except to Uncle Newton, who was in the war, too. Sometimes his asthma gets so bad he has to sit perfectly still for three or four hours. So he can’t get a job anywhere, of course—except helping Daddy out at the store. Daddy says he makes a big difference and is very dependable—unless he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_11"></a>I don’t know what Mama will do about getting him out of the taxi and up the steps since I’ll be living here in Listre. Mary Faye and Norris will have to help. But Mama hates for them to be exposed to such.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles <em>knew</em> all about Uncle Nate and how I—how my whole family—feels about drinking.</p>

  <p class="indent">So at the rehearsal Friday night everything was going fine except Mama caught Norris hiding in the baptism place and made him sit on the front row. She’d already caught him once. I told him the water would flow in there and drown him if he didn’t watch out. Mary Faye was one of my attendants and being as smart as she could be.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’m standing in the back of the church with Daddy and Flora, my cousin, who directed the wedding, and I notice that Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, from Maryland, who I had never met until that night, keeps going outside. And Charles keeps following him. Phil, Jim, Dale, and Crafton—my cousins—were of course staying in their places like they were supposed to. Flora gives me a little push and I start down the aisle with Daddy. Charles is standing with this red-faced grin. When Preacher Gordon says you may kiss the bride, I turned to Charles and there were these little red blood vessels in his left eye that looked like red thread and all of a sudden I caught a whiff of you-know-what. It hit me. It all suddenly fell together. I thought they had been going outside to <em>talk</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The thing you won’t believe is: Charles’s daddy looked lit too.</p>

  <p class="indent">I did not kiss Charles. I kept my lips clamped. I grabbed him by the arm and led him right up the aisle and out the front door. Madora Bryant, my maid of honor, and some of the other girls were clapping as hard as they could. They couldn’t <a id="page_12"></a>tell what was really happening. When I got him out on the front porch—right beside the bell rope—I said: (now I was really tore up) “Charles, I have told you for months about the condition Uncle Nate has put our family in with alcohol, and you promised me you would not have a bachelor party and get drunk and here you are, drunk, under the nose of Preacher Gordon, Mama, Daddy, Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and my bridesmaids and Mary Faye and Norris and I will never forget this as long as I live.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney,” he says, “first of all, I am not having a bachelor party, and second of all, I am not drunk. I am not doing anybody any harm. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not doing any harm? Charles, I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, Buddy drove all the way down here from Baltimore, Maryland, and he has one little pint of something in his car, and we were in the <em>war</em> together and if you will just relax. And he’s the <em>only</em> one of my close friends in the wedding. All these damn cousins of yours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, please do not start cussing right here on church property. And if you are mad about my cousins being in the wedding I would have appreciated you saying something about that before now—like while I was spending all my time getting this whole thing planned.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s daddy, Dr. Shepherd, walks up. I could not believe what was happening, yet I dared not make a scene in front of him. I was thinking that if Mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie found out about all this drinking I would die.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, honey,” Dr. Shepherd says, “you look adorable.” He’s a big man and wears those glasses without any rims—shaped <a id="page_13"></a>like stop signs. He’s a math professor, of all things. A doctor. And Mrs. Shepherd is a school teacher. They use these long words I know Mama and Daddy don’t know. And they should know Mama and Daddy don’t know them. But they’ll go on back down to Atlanta after the wedding and we won’t see them except maybe a few times a year. Charles says they belong to a country club and all that. What gets me is that Charles said he explained to them about us being Christians and not drinking which I didn’t even know we <em>had</em> to explain until Madora told me that Charles’s parents would probably be used to drinking spiked punch at weddings and what were we going to do?</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t thought about it. I’ve never been to a wedding where they drink liquor in the punch. I mean there’s usually a preacher at a wedding and it’s usually at a church. But Madora explained how rich people—or at least Episcopalians and Catholics and sometimes Methodists—will get married in church and then ride over to a country club or someplace where they all drink up a storm.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dr. Shepherd stands there kind of flushed and glassy-eyed and tells me how proud he is—and he laughs at everything he says, funny or not—and I’ll be durn if he didn’t reach up right then and there and pull the church bell rope and ring the bell. I could just see old Mrs. Bledsoe, down the road, figure it was not Friday night at all, but Wednesday night—prayer meeting night—instead, and get all upset and maybe grab <em>Mr</em>. Bledsoe, who can’t hear, and cart him off to a prayer meeting which don’t exist. Not to mention all the other people in hearing distance.</p>

  <p class="indent">The rehearsal dinner was in the education building around <a id="page_14"></a>behind the church. I walked down the church steps between Charles and his daddy—their arms locked through mine—not able to say a word, and hot behind my ears with embarrassment at the prospect of a scandal.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the education building there was Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—standing at the door, smiling.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Smooth as could be,” she said, and kissed Dr. Shepherd on the lips—right there in the door to the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">Inside, there were two long tables and a head table. Aunt Naomi was in charge. She had got Betty Winnberry to cater. Steaks. T-bone steaks. French fries. The works. I had hoped all along it wouldn’t be tacky—like paper tablecloths, which Aunt Naomi was talking about along at first. I’m certainly not going to be cow-tied to any fancy ways of the Shepherds, but I did want things to be proper for everybody concerned.</p>

  <p class="indent">On the tables were about twelve or thirteen red-checkered, overlapped tablecloths that Aunt Flossie had borrowed from Penny’s Grill (and had to wash and dry later that night in order to get them back to the grill in time for Penny to serve breakfast. They open at six <small>A.M</small>.). And over in the corner Mack Lumley was sitting on a bale of hay playing his guitar. He didn’t charge but ten dollars, and furnished the hay, too. Somebody suggested me and Charles sing, but I think singing at your own wedding wouldn’t be right.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie had put together the prettiest flower arrangement—right in the middle of the head table: roses, daisies, and Queen Anne’s lace, and pittosporum and nandina for greenery.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before supper, Charles and Buddy went out for you-know-what, I guess. I had to keep smiling and be as nice as I could to everybody. The supper <em>was</em> meaningful, but while I <a id="page_15"></a>was cutting a piece of T-bone steak I bent over to Charles and whispered: “Charles, I will never forget this.” But Charles just turned to Daddy and started talking about the Braves. They always talk about the Braves. As soon as they see one another they start talking about the Braves. I wanted to say, “Daddy, don’t you see what Charles is doing? How can you sit there and talk about the Braves while Charles is doing what he’s doing?” But I didn’t say anything. Lord knows, there was disturbance enough.</p>

  <p class="indent">I had spent all that time working out the arrangements and Charles wrote all the invitations by hand—he has this beautiful handwriting—and we had talked all about his new library job and our house and our future and how everything was going to work out, and he had been so good about running little errands. Then this.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is very intelligent, and good looking in his own way—his head is slightly large, but I think it just seems that way because his shoulders are narrow—and, oh, we had one or two little fusses getting ready for the wedding, but no more than you’d shake a stick at. And we’ve been playing music at different gatherings right along through all this—getting better and better and having lots of fun. Charles learns real fast and we like the same music mostly.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I end up sitting at my own wedding rehearsal dinner fussing at Charles for doing the one thing I was hoping against hope wouldn’t happen ever since Madora explained about how some people get drunk at weddings. We had talked about drinking several times, and I had this feeling of not being able to get a clear picture of how Charles felt. He talks a lot about “psychology.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_16"></a>The actual wedding itself went off without a hitch. It was the most wonderful day of my life. Charles was perfect. Dr. and Mrs. Shepherd were perfect. Mary Faye and Norris were perfect. Mama and Daddy were perfect. Mama wore a long dress—pink—and she was real pretty, except her hair-do was a little tight. Daddy looked the way he always does at church: out of place in a suit, and his head white where his hat goes, and his face red. (He <em>looks</em> like he has high blood pressure, but it’s normal and always has been.) Right before we walked down the aisle, he said, “Honey, I’m real happy for you. Charles is a good man.” His chin was quivering, and two tears rolled down his cheeks. He was holding my hand, which was something I don’t remember him doing since I was a little girl. Daddy don’t show much emotion.</p>

  <p class="indent">A bunch of people said it was the nicest wedding they had ever been to. I was just flushed throughout the whole thing. It went exactly according to plans. Charles was handsomer than I’ve ever seen him. The shoulders in his tux were padded.</p>

  <p class="indent">The wedding was fairly short and we all went straight to the reception in the education building <em>without</em> getting our pictures made, so people wouldn’t have to wait. Mama was real worried about us not getting a photographer, but Mack Lumley did it for only ten dollars over cost.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama and Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—cried several times each, and so did Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie, and two or three times Dr. Shepherd gave Millie a long hug right in front of everybody. Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, spent some time talking to Mary Faye and Norris. I thought that <a id="page_17"></a>was nice. Buddy and my cousins fixed up our car with tin cans and shaving cream; we changed clothes; Sylvia Curtis caught the bouquet; we ran to Charles’s Dodge Dart under all that rice, and headed for Myrtle Beach.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Now. The honeymoon. I do not have the nerve to explain everything that happened on the first night there in the Holiday Inn. We had talked about it some before—or Charles had talked about it. And we had, you know, necked the same as any engaged couple. And I had told Charles way back, of course, that I wanted my marriage consumed <em>after</em> I was married. Not before. Because if it was consumed before, then I would have to carry the thought of that throughout my entire life and it’s hard to undo that which has already been done.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ve read books. I’ve had talks with my mama. And I’ve read the Bible. You’d think that would prepare a woman for her wedding night.</p>

  <p class="indent">It didn’t. First of all, Charles had rib-eye steaks rolled into our room on this metal table with drawers which could keep the steaks warm. And there in the middle of the table was a dozen red roses. All that was nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">But in this silver bucket with ice and a white towel was, of all things, a bottle of champagne.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a predicament for me, because on the one hand it was all so wonderful, and Charles had planned it all out like the man is supposed to do—I mean, my dream was being fulfilled. Charles was getting things right. But on the other hand, there in the middle of the table rearing its ugly head, as they say, was a bottle of champagne. I’ve seen enough bottles of champagne after the World Series on TV (when the ballplayers <a id="page_18"></a>make fools out of themselves and cuss over the airways) to know one when I see it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, I’m not a prude. Getting drunk at your wedding is one thing, but I can understand a little private celebrating, maybe—as a symbol of something wonderful happening. Something symbolic. So I didn’t say anything about the champagne. It’s very hard to find fault on your wedding night with a dozen red roses staring you full in the face—even though a still, small voice was warning me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles poured me a glass and I said to myself, Why not just a sip, like medicine, and I tried a sip, but that’s all. It tasted like Alka Selzer with honey in it. I politely refused anymore. And didn’t think Charles would drink over a glass. (I figured you couldn’t buy it except in the bottle, and that’s why he got it that way.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and Charles pushed the table, with the dishes, out into the hall. I said excuse me, went into the bathroom, put on my negligee and got ready, you know, and came back out to find Charles standing there in his Fruit of the Loom, drinking champagne out of a plastic cup. It was a terrible scene to remember.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was planning to do what Mama explained to me: get in the bed and let Charles carry out his duties. And I was thinking that’s what Charles would be planning to do. But. He had a different idea which I do not have the nerve to explain. It turned into an argument which finally turned into a sort of Chinese wrestling match with my nerves tore all to pieces. Charles kept saying nothing was in the Bible about what married people could or couldn’t do. I finally cried, and Charles said he was sorry. It was awful. I cried again the next morning <a id="page_19"></a>and Charles said he was sorry again. This may be something I can forgive but I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. Not for a long time.</p>

  <p class="indentt">On the second day, we didn’t say much at breakfast, or after. We went to the beach for a while, ate hot dogs for lunch, and then came back to change clothes. Charles asked the manager about us playing music in the motel lounge that night. (We took our instruments in case we got a chance to play.) When he found out we’d do it free the manager said fine.</p>

  <p class="indent">So on the second night, rather than going to this country music show like we’d planned, we met the manager in the lounge. Charles wore bluejeans and I wore my blue-checkered blouse, jeans, and cowgirl hat. The manager came in and lit all the candles in these orange candle vases. There were only three or four people there. The only thing I didn’t like about it was that they served beer. But the bartender went out of his way to be nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">We decided to play half an hour and see if we could draw an audience. We started with several banjo pieces and then I sang “This World Is Not My Home” and “I’ll Fly Away.” I like the way those two songs fit together. It gives me something to talk about when I introduce them. Charles is good about letting me talk about the songs. I have played with people who hog it all.</p>

  <p class="indent">A crowd gathered, and sure enough they liked the music and clapped and somebody requested “Your Cheating Heart” and Charles tried it. He’s been learning it for the last month or so. He forgets words pretty easy. Nobody noticed but he sang the same verse twice. He looked at me and I managed to wink in spite of the fact I was still in turmoil from the night before.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_20"></a>We had told the manager we couldn’t play past nine-thirty that night. We told him it was our honeymoon and all. The truth is we only know about two hours worth of songs. But I did want to get back up to our bed and start our marriage in the proper manner. It’s something I had been thinking about since I was sixteen or seventeen years old and the night before had <em>not</em> worked out at all like I thought it would. It had made me a bundle of nerves and I had discovered something in Charles I didn’t know existed—something corroded, and him drinking a whole bottle of champagne brought it out. He still hasn’t taken serious my principles about drinking. That first night was a awful experience which I can’t bring myself to talk about, but I must say things went better on the second night. I was able to explain to Charles how I was supposed to come out of the bathroom in my negligee, go get in the bed, get under the cover, and then he was supposed to go to the bathroom, come out, come get under the cover, and accomplish what was supposed to be accomplished. It all worked the way it was supposed to, and was wonderful, I must say.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when I came out of the shower, before we went down for breakfast, Charles was talking on the phone to his other main friend besides Buddy Shellar: Johnny Dobbs, who lives in New Orleans. They were all three in the army together.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has a great voice,” he was saying. “Raney, get your guitar. Wait a minute, Johnny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the phone receiver on the bed, got out his banjo, hit a couple of licks and said to me, “Do ‘This World Is Not My Home.’ Wait a minute, let me introduce you to Johnny.” So he did, over the phone, and Johnny sounded real nice.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_21"></a>“Charles,” I whispered, “do you know how much this is costing?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll pay for it,” he said. “I’ve been telling Johnny about your voice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I sang “This World Is Not My Home,” and Charles asked Johnny if he could hear it clear over the phone and he said he could and then Charles wanted me to do my chicken song—the one I wrote. Charles thinks it’s the funniest thing he’s ever heard. It <em>is</em> a good song, and since Charles was paying. . . . It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">The town council chairman came by late last May.<br />
  Said we’re sorry, Mr. Oakley, ‘bout what we must say.<br />
  But the airport’s expanding, we mean you no harm.<br />
  The new north-south runway’s gonna point toward your farm.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to the governor, and told him my desire:<br />
  Could you please make them airplanes fly a little bit higher.<br />
  “My chickens ain’t laying,” I tried to explain.<br />
  But my words were going north on a south-bound train.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to a doctor; he gave me a pill.<br />
  I talked to a lawyer; you should have seen the bill.<br />
  I talked to a librarian; he grinned and winked his eye.<br />
  And he gave me a little book called, “Chickens Can Fly.”<br />
  (Charles says the book is by B. F. Skinner) <a id="page_22"></a><br />
  I read the little book. Taught my chickens to fly,<br />
  To aim at the intakes as the jet planes flew by.<br />
  My chickens are gone now, but the answer is found:<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I finished, Charles said Johnny really liked it. They talked another fifteen minutes before Charles finally hung up.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hugged Charles and said something about the night before. Charles said we ought to <em>talk</em> about our “sexual relationship” sometime, and I said okay, but Lord knows I won’t be able to <em>talk</em> about it. It’s something you’re supposed to do in a natural manner, not <em>talk</em> about. That’s why you don’t find it talked about in church and school—or at least you shouldn’t: it’s not supposed to be talked about. It’s something which is supposed to stay in the privacy of your own bedroom.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when we left, the manager was at the desk and he gave us an envelope with a twenty dollar bill in it. Said it was some of the best entertainment they ever had and would we please come back and that he once worked in a hotel in Reno, and he’d heard some better, but he’d sure heard a lot worse.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_4">III</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles is in the bedroom covered up in the bed. There are eleven broken monogrammed glasses here on the kitchen floor and every window in the house is locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">This all started last Saturday afternoon when I called Mama <a id="page_23"></a>as usual. I try to call her every day. We’ve always been close and I say those television commercials about calling somebody—reaching out and touching—make sense. Belinda Osborne drives to see her mother every day—forty miles round trip—which I’m not about to do. That is too close. Three times a week is often enough. (Belinda’s mother <em>is</em> sick a lot though.)</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d like to be living closer to home and I know Mama and Daddy were disappointed that we didn’t move into the Wilkins house, and I would have, but Charles insisted we live here in Listre because it’s close to the college. I finally said okay when he promised he would still go to church with me at home in Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">But: he’s been going to church less and less, and we’ve only been married six weeks. He’ll take me to Sunday School and drop me off, still wearing his pajamas under his clothes. He’s done it twice. Deacon Brooks said since Charles was Methodist he must think he’s too good for Free Will Baptists. He pretended he was kidding, but I could tell he was serious.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, as I said, I called Mama last Saturday afternoon and she told me that she had come by with Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to see us that morning but we were gone. They came on in to use the phone to call Annie Godwin so it wouldn’t be long distance. (We don’t lock the door normally.) Aunt Naomi went to the kitchen to get a glass of water and accidentally broke one of the monogrammed glasses Cousin Emma gave us for a wedding present. Mama told me all this on the phone. I didn’t think twice about it. I figured I’d just pick up another glass next time I’m at the mall. I know where they come from.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday, the very next day, we’re eating dinner at home in Bethel with Mama, Daddy, Uncle Nate, Mary Faye, and <a id="page_24"></a>Norris. Mama fixes at least two meats, five or six vegetables, two kinds of cornbread, biscuits, chow-chow, pickles, pies, and sometimes a cake.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Where did you tell me you all were yesterday morning?” She was getting the cornbread off the stove. She’s always the last one to sit down.</p>

  <p class="indent">“At the mall,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I like where you moved the couch to,” says Mama. “It looks better. We waited for you all fifteen or twenty minutes. I’m sorry Naomi broke that glass,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t mentioned it to Charles. No reason to. He says—and he was serious: “Why were you all in our house?”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was mortified in my heart.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We were just using the phone,” says Mama. There was a long silence. It built up and then kept going.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pass the turnips, Mary Faye,” I said. “I couldn’t figure out what was wrong in there so I moved things around until it looked better and sure enough it was the couch. The couch was wrong.”</p>

  <p class="indent">My mama ain’t nosy. No more than any decent woman would be about her own flesh and blood.</p>

  <p class="indent">Listen. I don’t have nothing to hide. And Lord knows, Charles don’t, except maybe some of his opinions.</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and set in the den and talked for a while and the subject didn’t come up again. Charles always gets fidgety within thirty minutes of when we finish eating. He has no appreciation for just setting and talking. And I don’t mean going on and on about politics or something like that; I mean just talking—talking about normal things. So since he gets fidgity, we usually cut our Sunday visits short. “Well, I guess <a id="page_25"></a>we better get on back,” I say, while Charles sits over there looking like he’s bored to death. I know Mama notices.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we’re out of the driveway, Charles says, “Raney, I think you ought to tell your mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to stay out of our house unless somebody’s home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">To stay out of <em>my</em> own house.</p>

  <p class="indent">He couldn’t even wait until we were out of the driveway. And all the car windows rolled down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got on down the road, out of hearing distance, I said, “Charles, you don’t love Mama and never did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He pulls the car over beside the PEACHES FOR SALE sign across from Parker’s pond. And stares at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">The whole thing has tore me up. “Charles,” I said, and I had to start crying, “you don’t have to hide your life from Mama and them. Or me. You didn’t have to get all upset today. You could understand if you wanted to. You didn’t have to get upset when I opened that oil bill addressed to you, either. There ain’t going to be nothing in there but a oil bill, for heaven’s sake. Why anyone would want to hide a oil bill I cannot understand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He starts hollering at me. The first time in my life anybody has set in a car and hollered at me. His blood vessels stood all out. I couldn’t control myself. It was awful. If you’ve ever been hollered at, while you are crying, by the one person you love best in the world, you know what I mean. This was a part of Charles I had never seen.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Here’s what happened yesterday. We went to Penny’s Grill for lunch. (I refuse to cook three meals a day, I don’t care what <a id="page_26"></a>Mama says.) When we got back, there was Mama’s green Ford—parked in front of the house.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is that your mother’s Ford?” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“There.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, in front of the house? I think it might be.” That long silence from the dinner table last Sunday came back, and I hoped Mama was out in the back yard picking up apples because I knew I couldn’t stand another scene within a week. I couldn’t think of a thing to say. I didn’t want to fuss at Charles right before he talked to Mama, and I certainly wouldn’t dare fuss at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles got out of the car not saying a word and started for the house. I was about three feet behind, trying to keep up. The front door was wide open.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stopped just inside the door. I looked over his shoulder and there was Mama coming through the arched hall doorway. She stopped. She was dressed for shopping.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, where in the world have you all been?” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We been to eat,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Eating out?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “please do not come in this house if we’re not here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe what I was hearing. It was like a dream.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Charles son, I was only leaving my own daughter a note saying to meet me at the mall at two o’clock, at the fountain. The front door was open. You should lock the front door if you want to keep people out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell, a person is entitled to his own privacy. I’m entitled to my own privacy. This is my—our—house. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_27"></a>“This is my own daughter’s house, son. My mama was never refused entrance to my house. She was always welcome. Every day of her life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was afraid Mama was going to cry. I opened my mouth but nothing came out.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “it seems as though you think everything <em>you</em> think is right, is right for everybody.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, “that’s what everybody thinks—in a sense. That’s even what <em>you</em> think.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles turned half around so he could see me. He looked at me, then at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Son, I’ll be happy to buy you a new monogrammed glass if that’s what you’re so upset about. Naomi didn’t mean to break that glass. I’m going over to the mall right now. And I know where they come from.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walks past me and out the front door, stops, turns around and says, “I didn’t want any of those damned monogrammed glasses in the first place and I did the best I could to make that clear, plus that’s not the subject.” (I gave him a monogrammed blue blazer for his birthday and he cut the initials off before he’d wear it.)</p>

  <p class="indent">So now Mama’s at the mall with her feelings hurt. Charles is in the bedroom with a blanket over his head, and I’m sitting here amongst eleven broken monogrammed glasses, and every door and window locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">Evidently Charles throws things when he’s very mad. I never expected violence from Charles Shepherd. Thank God we don’t have a child to see such behavior.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We didn’t speak all afternoon, or at supper—I fixed hot <a id="page_28"></a>dogs, split, with cheese and bacon stuck in—or after. I went to bed at about ten o’clock, while Charles sat in the living room reading some book. I felt terrible about Mama’s feelings being hurt like I know they were; I hadn’t known whether to call her or not; I couldn’t with Charles there; and I couldn’t imagine what had got into Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I went to bed and was trying to go to sleep, with my mind full of upsetting images, when I heard this <em>voice</em> coming out of the heating vent at the head of the bed on my side. I sat up. I thought at first it was somebody under the house. I let my head lean down over the side of the bed close to the vent. It was <em>Charles</em>—talking on the phone in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now if we’d been on speaking terms I would have told him I could hear him, but we weren’t speaking. And besides, I won’t about to get out of bed for no reason at eleven <small>P.M</small>. And so I didn’t have no choice but to listen, whether I wanted to or not.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was talking to his Johnny friend. I could hear just about everything he said. If we had been speaking, I wouldn’t have hesitated to tell him how the sound came through the vent. But we weren’t speaking, as I said. He was talking about—you guessed it: Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“. . . She just broke in, in essence . . . just walked through the door when nobody was home. . . . It’s weird, Johnny. . . . What am I supposed to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Now why didn’t he ask <em>me</em> what he was supposed to do? He didn’t marry Johnny Dobbs.</p>

  <p class="indent">I agree that some things need to be left private—but the <em>living room</em>? The living room is where everybody comes into the house. That’s one of the last places to keep private on earth. <a id="page_29"></a>I just can’t connect up Charles’s idea about privacy to the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">He went on about Mama for awhile and then said something about everybody saying “nigger,” and that when Johnny came to see us for him not to drive in after dark—which I didn’t understand until it dawned on me that maybe Johnny Dobbs was a, you know, black. He didn’t sound like it when I talked to him over the phone at Myrtle Beach. Charles and his other army buddy, Buddy Shellar, at the wedding kept talking about “Johnny this” and “Johnny that” but I never thought about Johnny being anything other than a regular white person. They were all three in the army, which of course everybody knows has been segregated since 1948, according to Charles, so I guess it’s possible they roomed together, or at least ate together.</p>

  <p class="indent">He didn’t sound, you know, black.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ll ask Charles about it when we’re on speaking terms and I tell him about how the sound comes through the vent; but if he <em>is</em> a nigger, he can’t stay here. It won’t work. The Ramada, maybe, but not here.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_5">IV</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Flossie called last Wednesday—said to come by and pick up some fresh peanut butter cookies. She lives in a little four-room house between Listre and Bethel—and cooks apple pies for Penny’s Grill on the side. Her kitchen is always smelling <a id="page_30"></a>like cinnamon and sugar-cooked apples. Charles can’t get over how good her apple pies are. He asked her for the recipe and he don’t even cook.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m cooking an extra apple pie,” she says. “I’ll be done in a few minutes and you can have a hot piece with some ice cream.” Aunt Flossie has a way about her that makes me feel free to talk. She seems like she’s used to talking, even though she lives by herself. When something hard to talk about comes up, there’s a little sparkle in her eyes—and she loves to tell stories almost as much as Uncle Nate. I went right over there.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” she said, “when Frank and me got married it was like starting to school—the things I had to learn. I guess I’d never had an argument with a soul in the world—except a few squabbles with Mama.” She was making up cookie dough. (Now, how could she tell that Charles and me had had a argument?) “I don’t know about Frank,” she said, “but I don’t guess he’d ever argued with a woman, certainly not his mama. We had to <em>learn</em> to argue. I’d get so mad at him. We’d stay mad for days, not speaking. I finally figured out that that kind of business scared me. Scared me bad. And that’s why I was so mad. Like with old man Wiley’s bull, Red—us being scared and mad getting run together at the same time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Old man Wiley’s bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I shot old man Wiley’s bull one time. Named Red. I couldn’t have been over twelve. He was always getting loose and chasing us up a tree. Mama told Mr. Wiley to keep his bull locked up, else she’d shoot him. Course I heard all this talk—so one day all of us were down in the woods when Red got out and started pawing dirt, throwing his head around, and snorting, and I ran to the house and snuck the shotgun out the back door. Everybody was up a tree when I got back. I <a id="page_31"></a>shot him. He turned and run and I shot him again. We hated that bull. And the reason we hated him was we were so scared of him. Why, the bull won’t doing nothing unnatural. And the whole point is, we were mad <em>because</em> we were scared and I never figured <em>that</em> out until me and Frank figured out about our arguments.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whose bull was it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was old man Wiley’s bull. One day I told Frank that our arguments scared me and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to the bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, he won’t hurt none. The gun had birdshot. Ah, the pies are ready.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s no apple pie in the world better than Aunt Flossie’s, especially with cold vanilla ice cream melting down over it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Frank died when I was about seven. He was a car salesman. I don’t remember much about him. But I’ve seen lots of pictures of him and Aunt Flossie, Mama and Daddy, and Aunt Naomi and Uncle Forrest, who died sometime before I was six. They all went to the beach, the fair, and the mountains together and took bunches of pictures.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How old was I when Uncle Forrest died?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Four. Three or four, I guess. Frank used to call him ‘Woody.’ What a card he was. Always kidding. People always liked that about him though. I never saw him embarrassed but once. Did I ever tell you about the time we all went to the beach before him and Naomi were married?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, me and Doris were swimming in the ocean when here comes Naomi and Forrest from the bath house. They don’t get no farther than about a foot deep—where the waves are breaking for the third or fourth time—and Naomi is holding <a id="page_32"></a>onto Forrest’s hand and jumping every little wave and screaming like nobody’s business when Doris—who’s standing behind me—says, ‘Lord have mercy.’ I look and there’s Naomi just jumping up and down over those little waves, laughing, and one of her breasts—just as white as flour—was out of her bathing suit and Forrest—they weren’t married yet—was looking off down the beach, like he hadn’t noticed. Doris says, ‘Lord have mercy, Flossie, one of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’ Well, I thought I would die. I started walking toward them, motioning to Naomi, and she just kept jumping up and down. Forrest was pretending he hadn’t noticed—looking off down the beach. Naomi saw and turned away from Forrest and bent over double and got everything tucked back in. Forrest was standing there embarrassed to death and I said, ‘Tell us a joke, Woody.’ But the funniest thing was your mama saying, ‘One of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’”</p>

  <p class="indent">A pan of cookies was done—and Aunt Flossie wrapped me up a bunch in wax paper and put them in a cookie can.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Anyway, honey, try not to worry too much about the rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What rough spots?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“With Charles—if and when.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, there ain’t no rough spots.” I couldn’t get into all that about Charles. Even with Aunt Flossie. If it got worse: maybe.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean any you might have.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Well, Charles is just as sweet as he can be. We been working up some new music. We learned three new Carter family tunes last week. I’ll let you know if there get to be any rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_33"></a>“You be sure to do that,” says Aunt Flossie. “It never hurts to have somebody to listen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A week or two ago, Charles said he wished he had a Aunt Flossie in his family. His aunts are all out West, or in Connecticut.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_6">V</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Naomi called me this past Wednesday was a week ago and upset me terrible. She called to find out all about our upcoming trip to the beach: when, exactly, we were coming back, what food she needed to take, and so forth. She also said Mama was upset about the argument with Charles—they had talked about it on the phone—but that Mama wouldn’t say nothing to me about it for the world. She said Mama felt betrayed and couldn’t understand why it all had to happen to her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, it just made me sick. I don’t know why Charles had to react so. Mama would never hurt anything in the world, and Charles knows it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now Aunt Naomi, as well as Mama, has got something against Charles. The problem is that nobody has seen the good side of anybody else—in the whole family, since the wedding—except, I guess Daddy has pretty much seen the good side of Charles, and has took to Charles better than anybody else. Except me, of course—and maybe Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">So anyway, when we drove to the beach last Sunday (we left <a id="page_34"></a>right after Sunday School), Charles insisted on sitting up front with Daddy, so they could talk about surf fishing. They had these great long fishing rods, and some short ones, tied to the top of the car. I don’t know why they don’t just use the short ones, which are way less expensive, and fish off the pier like other people. They can get their line farther out in the ocean that way. Those big rods cost a fortune.</p>

  <p class="indent">I wanted Charles to sit in the back with me and Aunt Naomi so they could get to know each other’s good sides a little better, and so Mama and Daddy could sit up front where they could argue by themselves. But oh no. Charles gets up front before anybody else has a chance. Me, Mama, and Aunt Naomi sat in the back. Uncle Nate, Aunt Flossie, Mary Faye, and Norris followed us in Aunt Flossie’s Oldsmobile.</p>

  <p class="indent">The funny thing is this: Charles has not gone anywhere with Daddy driving—and Daddy don’t always chew tobacco when he drives but last Sunday he did; and what he does when he chews tobacco and drives is use a drink bottle, usually a short Coke-a-cola bottle, for a spitoon. When I saw Daddy bringing a Coke bottle to the car I figured it served Charles right for not wanting to ride in the back with Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">See, Charles has a repulsion about anything gooey and slimey. He won’t eat boiled okra and he thinks somebody spitting is just awful, whereas I don’t see nothing wrong with it as long as it’s not on somebody.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes if Daddy takes a chew while he’s driving, and a Coke bottle’s not around, he’ll open the car door at a stop sign and spit on the road—which might have been better for Charles on this trip—but when he does that, the tobacco spatters up, and the car door gets to looking like a speckled dog until Mama goes out and cleans it off with Ajax.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_35"></a>So Sunday, as soon as Daddy gets settled behind the steering wheel, he cuts off this big hunk of Brown Williamson. I buy him four plugs every Christmas and I buy Mama a bottle of Jergen’s lotion. Of course that’s not all I buy. Last Christmas I bought Daddy a pair of ceramic bird dogs and I bought Mama a off-white shawl which she took back. She takes back most things she buys or you give her. She’s always hard to buy for. She’ll <em>tell</em> you she’s hard to buy for. One Christmas, Ferbie Layton told Aunt Flossie that Mama was pretty and Aunt Flossie told me and Aunt Naomi that she was passing along the compliment to Mama as a Christmas present because for sure Mama couldn’t return that. If she does keep something you give her, she’ll alter it. One Christmas I gave her a free-hanging plaid blouse which she said she believed she’d take up even though we all told her it was the right length. So she finally said she wouldn’t take it up. Aunt Flossie said she bet she would. (I think she did, but we never knew for sure.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t got as far as Paulsen’s Gulf when Daddy pulls his Coke bottle up from between his legs and spits in a long string of brown juice. He breaks the spit off by flicking the mouth of the Coke bottle against his bottom lip. Comes clear every time.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles squirmed. I wanted to say Charles if you weren’t watching out for yourself so much, you wouldn’t have to be up there; you could be back here in the back seat getting to know Aunt Naomi a little better, and Mama could be up front with Daddy so they wouldn’t have to argue back and forth across the seat.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Mama says what she always says at the Oak Hill intersection when we go to the beach: “Thurman, you’re going to turn to the right here?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_36"></a>“Yes I am, Doris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re not going by the interstate?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just asked, Thurman. Remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, it was longer when we went this way.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That was early of a Friday morning when the traffic was thick.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, the point is you don’t have all them little towns to drive through on the interstate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just thinking of how not to take so long to get there. I declare,” says Mama to Aunt Naomi, “the ‘blacks’ stop in these little towns in the middle of the street and talk to whoever happens to be on the sidewalk and you can’t blow your horn lest one’s liable to come back for all you know and cut your throat.” (Mama has started saying “blacks” when Charles is around. And I guess I have too.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to,” Daddy says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay, I’ll drive,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a long pause during which the car didn’t slow down a bit.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll drive,” says Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well then,” says Mama, “you shouldn’t say you’ll be glad for me to drive.” There was this other long pause. “When you’re not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy just looked at Charles, shifted his tobacco from one cheek to the other and says, “You got any connector sleeves in your tackle box? I’m out.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_37"></a>Charles said he had plenty.</p>

  <p class="indentt">For the past ten years, every time we go to the beach, we eat at Hardee’s in Goldsboro. So when we got close, Daddy says, “Ya’ll want to eat at Hardee’s?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Any place is fine with me,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">And do you know what Charles has the gall to say? He says, “I’d rather eat at some place we can sit down to order, if it’s all the same.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe my ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">One reason Charles had to speak up is because he took a course at the college called Aggressiveness Training. It teaches you to say what you want to say when you want to say it. The thing is: Charles never needed any aggressiveness training. He’s never had any problem being aggressive. But he thinks it’s the modern way or something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to eat at Hardee’s so I can get a apple turnover,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy said he didn’t care, someplace to sit down and order would be fine with him, but Mama and Aunt Naomi sided with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">You see, Charles tries out his aggressiveness training when in his heart he really don’t care. He just wants to keep it in practice—keep it working, like when you break up a flower bed in winter just to keep it loose.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at Hardee’s.</p>

  <p class="indent">After lunch, me and Charles traded car seats. His idea.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now. You would think Charles could ride to the beach without disagreeing with Aunt Naomi right there in the back seat. But oh no. It was over a very simple matter.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi goes to our church but she lives out in the <a id="page_38"></a>country, close to Hillview Baptist—not a Free Will, and while we rode along she told all about them having to let their preacher go.</p>

  <p class="indent">“After it all got out they didn’t have no choice but to let him go,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it started out with him praying regular with this woman whose husband got killed in a car wreck. I didn’t know her—or her husband. She hadn’t been around long. I think they were praying every Wednesday night after prayer meeting. She up and moves to Charlotte and nobody thought anything about it until Tim Hodges, who’s the treasurer, noticed these regular phone calls on the church phone bill. One was over thirty minutes. He told Lloyd Womble, the head deacon. I guess they kept a eye on things and one Friday after the preacher said he was going to see his brother in Franklin, they checked up on him. Called his brother. His brother hadn’t seen him and won’t expecting him. Well.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Saturday, when the preacher got back, Tim and Lloyd paid him a visit. Asked him where he’d been and he said to see his brother. And of course they had him. Just plain had him.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They certainly are a trusting bunch,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes,” says Aunt Naomi, “they trust in the Lord, of course.” She was looking straight at the back of Charles’s head. “Now the funny part was that Emily, the preacher’s wife, didn’t get mad at the preacher—that I know of. She got mad at Tim and Lloyd because they wouldn’t believe it when the preacher said he was sorry. She said <em>she</em> believed he was sorry. But what else would the man say—caught red-handed. Tim and Lloyd felt obliged to bring it before the church and the church voted him out. He had to move.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_39"></a>After a minute, Charles says, “It’s possible that Jesus would have forgiven him. After all, he forgave a prostitute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">That took the cake. I’ve been going to church since I was born and I don’t remember anything about Jesus forgiving a prostitute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Besides that, a prostitute is not married like the preacher was.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi just looked out the window, then hunted through her pocketbook for some chewing gum and said, “Well, I don’t know about that.”</p>

  <p class="indentt">We stay at Mr. Albert Douglas’s cabin at the beach every summer. He rents it to us at half price and it’s only two blocks from the ocean. We found the key on the nail in the stumpy tree beside the back door and let ourselves in. Everything had been left in order. We opened all the windows to get rid of the closed-in smell. There was a nice breeze.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate took Norris and Mary Faye for a quick look at the ocean while the rest of us unpacked. I insisted me and Charles get the couch to sleep on since we’d probably be staying up later than anybody else.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had barely got settled when Uncle Nate’s asthma started acting up. It usually does at the beach. He sat down on the couch and said he’d sit there for a spell. He was breathing fast, pulling back with his shoulders on each breath, and giving a little wheezy cough every minute or so. His hair was slicked straight back with Vitalis and he was wearing a starched white shirt as usual.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris and Mary Faye came in begging Charles and me to take them to the boardwalk. I kind of wanted to go to the boardwalk myself. I like the hubbub. So Charles and me took them. We <a id="page_40"></a>all got a ice cream cone as soon as we got there, but before Norris took the first bite, his scoop fell out. Vanilla—he won’t eat nothing but vanilla. He started to pick it up.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stupid,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris,” I said, “ask the lady for another scoop. Don’t pick that up off the boardwalk.” He already had most of it up. He let it drop back. The lady saw what happened and had him another scoop ready when he reached up his cone. I got some napkins and wiped off his hand.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked along the boardwalk. I looked back to check on Norris. He was walking along, looking back over his shoulder at this little boy with a stuffed giraffe. His ice cream cone was tilting more and more.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris, don’t drop your—”</p>

  <p class="indent">That scoop fell between the planks and left just the slightest bit up top. Norris squatted down and looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">The lady made us pay this time. I guess she was worried about going out of business.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles bought me a necklace from one of those little jewelry stands. I told him it was too expensive but he bought it anyway and had “Love, Tiger” wrote on it. He does little things like that, that a lot of men never think about. I tried to get him to ring the bell with the sledge hammer, but he wouldn’t. Norris wanted to but I wouldn’t let him. He would have been disappointed. I did let him and Mary Faye ride the bumper cars three times. They got the bottoms of their feet so black Aunt Naomi made them wash them off with soap at the outside shower before she’d let them come in the cottage.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had pimento cheese and monkey meat—that’s luncheon meat—sandwiches and potato chips for supper. Then after <a id="page_41"></a>supper while Daddy was unfolding the card table for Rook, Aunt Naomi wanted to know how thick the niggers had been down at the boardwalk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not very,” I said. “They hang out mostly over at Wright’s beach.” That’s the nigger beach. “I don’t think I saw over one or two.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I saw a whole car load,” says Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’ve got as much right as anyone else to walk on the boardwalk,” says Charles. Charles has this thing about niggers. For some reason he don’t understand how they are. Or at least how they are around Listre and Bethel. Maybe his Johnny friend is different. I can only speak for the ones around Listre and Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, son,” says Aunt Naomi, “I agree they got a right. The Constitution gives them a right. So that’s settled. There’s no question about that. No argument at all about that. The problem comes with where they want to spend their time. And so long as they’ve got <em>their</em> beach, like Raney says, then I don’t understand to my life why they don’t use it—why they have to use ours. In Russia they wouldn’t have their own beach. But our constitution does provide that they can have their own beach. I agree. It’s just that they need to stay in their own place at their own beach just like the white people stay at their own place at their own beach.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody else said anything—Uncle Nate was asleep on the couch—but you could tell we all agreed except Charles. He walks through the screen door on outside.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t understand where he gets some of his attitudes,” says Aunt Naomi. “What’s trumps?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_42"></a>Monday morning, Mama and me cooked eggs, bacon, grits, and biscuits. After breakfast, Daddy, Uncle Nate, and Charles took Mary Faye and Norris fishing at the pier. Me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie cleaned up the dishes, put on our bathing suits, got towels and suntan lotion, and walked to the beach. We were all planning to meet back at the cabin for lunch.</p>

  <p class="indent">About the time we got settled on a nice even spot, along came this Marine with a woman who had a blue lightning bolt tattooed on the inside of her knee. They sat down on this white towel—too little for both of them—beside some college students. The waves were crashing, so I know they couldn’t hear us talk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare I don’t think I’ve ever seen a woman with a tattoo,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“On the inside of her knee.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, <em>where</em>? Where are they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He looks like a soldier.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a Marine from Camp Lejune,” I said. “I can tell by the way his hair’s cut.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see no tattoo on her,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute and you will,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There it is,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’ll be dog,” says Aunt Naomi. “Don’t that beat all? A blue lightning bolt. Do you reckon she drew that on there with a ball point pen?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not unless she can draw mighty good,” says Mama. <a id="page_43"></a>“Course a lightning bolt ain’t all that hard to draw. I remember from school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now can you imagine,” says Aunt Naomi, “Some woman walking into a tattoo parlor with a bunch of men standing around, hiking up her dress and saying I want a blue lightning bolt tattooed right here on the inside of my knee? Can you imagine that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I sure can’t,” says Mama. “But she looks like she’s been in plenty places like that. I mean she looks like she’s spent a good deal of her life indoors in some back room.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, she could be a you-know-what,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman was pale and skinny with black hair stringy wet from swimming. She lit a cigarette and when she pulled it out of her mouth she laughed smoke at something the Marine said and I could see some of her teeth were rotten.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young people nowadays will go to almost any length,” said Aunt Naomi. “I don’t know what it’s all coming to. Who ever heard of so much burning, beating, and stabbing, and my Lord, I can’t imagine what Papa would done to me had I come home with a blue lightning bolt tattooed on my kneecap. Why he would—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s on the inside of her knee,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why he would have skint me alive.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked Charles all of a sudden and said we’d better come to the house, that Norris had a fish hook hung in his <em>nose</em>. He said that on Mary Faye’s first cast, Norris was walking behind her and the hook caught him, as clean as day, in his left nostril—<em>with the worm still on the hook</em>. We followed him to the cottage. I couldn’t imagine.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walk in and there sits Norris in a straightback chair, crying, with Uncle Nate down on his knees trying to see in <a id="page_44"></a>Norris’s nose and Norris trying to hold his head still but not being able to on account of crying.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris rolls his eyes to look at us when we walk in. Standing there beside him is Mary Faye, holding a rod and Zebco reel with a line leading to Norris’s nose where the hook is stuck in his nostril with a live worm half in and half out. It won’t bleeding though. Daddy is standing behind Uncle Nate, watching.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I say we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute,” says Uncle Nate, “if the barb ain’t in we can pull it right out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If the barb ain’t in, it would’ve fell out, wouldn’t it?—with that great big worm on there,” says Aunt Flossie. “He must weigh half a pound.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t need that much worm to catch a fish,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I agree,” I said. In many ways Charles is very clearheaded.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, if I can just—” said Uncle Nate, reaching up toward Norris’s nose.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris lets out this short yell and puts his hand in front of his face.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stands up and looks around at everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Tears are dropping off the worm. A drop of blood appears.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s bleeding,” says Charles. “What’s wrong with taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s the worm bleeding,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you know that?” asks Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_45"></a>“Cause it’s a blood worm. They’re supposed to bleed. That’s what it’s called: a blood worm. That’s what it says where you buy them on the pier: blood worms, $2.00 a dozen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Gosh, they’ve gone up,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, suppose it <em>is</em> the worm,” says Charles. “What can you lose by taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The worm or Norris?” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Norris,</em>” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Norris goes, the worm goes,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“To start with,” says Uncle Nate to Charles, “you’re going to lose about fifty dollars. Second, you’re going to lose a chance to do something for yourself instead of some overpaid doctor doing it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walked out the door. Again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy took over. “Now, wait a minute,” he said. “Everybody sit down. No. No, not you, Mary Faye. You stand right there and hold the pole, honey.” He pulled a chair in front of Norris’s chair and sat down. “You all go on about your business. I want to talk to Norris a few minutes. Let me have the rod and reel, Mary Faye. Now, Mr. Norris. I’ll bet that nose hurts, don’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why don’t you stand up real easy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stood up, stretching his neck out and holding his head still like a dog smelling a dead snake, his hands hanging down by his sides with his fingers spread like he was afraid of touching something gooey—or like he <em>had</em> touched something gooey.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay,” said Daddy, “I’ll tell you what let’s do—do you want to get that old worm out of there?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down, easy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_46"></a>“Now the first thing I want you to do is give me your hand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris reached out his hand and Daddy took it in his hand and massaged it around and around. “Now you just relax. We’ll get that old worm right out of there in no time flat. You think about that little sting as a mosquito bite.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down. A tear dropped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now you take holt of the line right here—that’s right. Right there. That’s good. Now you just move your hand up along the line until it gets up to that little hook. Okay. Now. You relax and I’m going to wrap my hand around your hand and help you out a little bit.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded up and down, slow. His eyes were getting bigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hold your head real still and we’ll—”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy nudged up and then down, and that hook came right out—as pretty as you please. Aunt Flossie went over and hugged Norris and he started bawling and his nose started bleeding but we put some cold towels on it. Mama got a little alcohol on some cotton up in there and then some Vaseline. Norris cried with the alcohol but calmed down with the Vaseline.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We ate banana sandwiches for lunch. Then me and Uncle Nate went along with Daddy and Charles to watch them surf fish. First we stopped by the fish market and bought some fish to cut up and use for bait; then we drove to this spot where Daddy said the blues might be biting.</p>

  <p class="indent">They’d cast far out with a piece of dead fish on the hook, then stand there for ten or fifteen minutes before winding in <a id="page_47"></a>the line to check the bait, which was smoothed down and considerably smaller than when they first threw it out. Charles said the sand and current did that. He let me hold his rod for a while, then he asked Uncle Nate if he wanted to hold it for a while, but he said no, and at about three o’clock Uncle Nate left—said he was going to walk up to the boardwalk and try to find a newspaper. We fished until about five and caught one fish. Daddy caught him but he was too little to keep.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got back to the cottage, Mama and the others had been swimming. Everybody was sunburned except Daddy. He wears all his clothes at the beach, all the time, every time we go.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate didn’t turn up for supper and I could tell Mama was worried. We had cold fried chicken left over from the trip down, tomatoes, hot snap beans, and fresh hot biscuits, and had finished and been sitting around talking for a while when in walked Uncle Nate: drunk. But I didn’t think he was terribly drunk because he looked decent, except he had one sleeve rolled up and the other rolled down and unbuttoned.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “what in the world have you gone and done?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, Doris, nothing in the worl’ but been fishing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare,” says Mama, “you’d think you could come to the beach with your own family and behave yourself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy walked out on the porch with his oatmeal cookie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was over on the couch reading a <em>Time</em> magazine. Uncle Nate went over and sat down beside him.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where’d you go to school, boy?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They teach you the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_48"></a>“The what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The stays and capols.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t think so? You don’t think so? Wha’s capol of Missesota?” He was drunker than he looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Missesota?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Minnesota.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>You don’t know! You don’t know! St. Paul.</em> Hell no, they di’n teach you no capols.” Uncle Nate looked around.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama, “there’ll be no cussing in this beach cottage. You have done enough damage getting drunk in front of these children. It’s bad enough without you cussing in the very cottage Al Douglas has been nice enough to rent us at half price.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at her and then turned back to Charles. “Montgomery Alabama, Phoenix Arizona, Little Rock Arkansas, Sacramento California, Denver Colorado. Hell, I know ‘em every one.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “now I have told you—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Name a stay,” Uncle Nate says to Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Florida.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Tallahassee. Ha. See? Capol T-a-l-l-a-h-a-s-s-e-e. We had to learn to spell them too. How come you din have to learn the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What good is it?” asks Charles, pushing up off the couch with his hands and slipping away.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Why, hell, if you’re traveling through Miss’ippi and somebody says ‘what’s the capol of this stay?’ you say ‘St. Paul.’ You know something about <a id="page_49"></a>the stay you’re in. What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Hell, why come you learn anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Charles, “I’m just thinking why not write it all down on a piece of paper, put it in your billfold, and then spend all that time learning something else. Then when somebody wants to know a capital, pull out the piece of paper and read the answer.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Read</em> the answer. <em>Read</em> the answer. Shit, when I went to school—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate!” Mama says. “I said I was not going to have it and I mean it. If you want me to call the law you just keep it up. I’ll do it. I’ll do it right this very night.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate got quiet, almost whispering—“When I went to school you learned your lessons. You went home and learned your lessons. And when it was time to work you worked. And when it was time to go to church, you went to church. And when it was time to go to bed, you went to bed. And when it was ti—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just glad I didn’t have to learn the states and capitals,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We had to <em>spell</em> them too.” Uncle Nate spit on “spell.” “Miss’ippi. Capol M-i-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i. Jackson. Capol J-a-c-k-s-o-n.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m glad you learned all that,” said Charles, getting up from the couch. “I think it’s about time I turned in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t care if you’re too good to talk to me,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I’m too good to talk to you.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_50"></a>“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes, yes, yes you do. I know when somebody thinks they’re too good to talk to me. But don’t worry, you’re not the first one. You just go right ahead off to beddy bye, sonny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles looked at me and I remembered we were sleeping on the couch. Everybody but Daddy had been sitting around listening. They started getting up—except Mama, who was sitting on a stool by the sink—and heading off to bed. It was time anyway. Charles asked me if I wanted to go out and get a breath of fresh air and I said I did.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you wanted to go to bed?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re sitting on my bed,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m sitting on the goddamn couch.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama stood up. “Uncle Nate,” I said. “Now, listen, Charles does not think he’s too good for you. You’ve just had too much to drink, and I think you ought to cut out that language. You’re here with the entire family and the least you can do is be polite. Charles does not think he’s too good for you. He’s just got his own opinions like anybody else, that’s all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked straight at me, with his mouth open and his eyes red and droopy, “You’re right, honey,” he says. “You’re exactly right.” And he starts crying. “I love you all more than anything,” he says, “and I pray for ever’one of you ever’night. I pray for you, Doris, and you, Raney, and for you, Naomi, and Thurman, and you, Flossie, and the kids and you too, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate, you’d better pray for yourself,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at Mama. His head was bobbing around and tears were on his cheeks. His head got still and he smiled and said, “Oh, I do that first.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_51"></a>“Let’s go outside,” Charles says to me. I walked over and patted Uncle Nate on the back and then me and Charles went outside while Mama fussed at Uncle Nate for taking the Lord’s name in vain.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked down to the beach and started toward the pier. Mary Faye was following us. We stopped and she stopped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’ll have to go back, Mary Faye,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You just will.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’re going to walk down to the pier and it’s time for you to go to bed.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not sleepy. Come on. Let me go. Daddy said I could.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Charles to wait and I went back and talked to Mary Faye. I figured she might be upset too. I told her that Uncle Nate was a good man at heart and not to be afraid of him, that God moves in mysterious ways, and that Uncle Nate’s cussing was the work of the Devil.</p>

  <p class="indent">She said she just wanted to go to the pier.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I explained that Charles was upset about Uncle Nate and that I needed to talk to him and that we’d go to the pier tomorrow.</p>

  <p class="indent">She kicked the sand, making it squeak, turned around and went on back.</p>

  <p class="indent">At the pier, Charles said Uncle Nate was a “weird bird.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean?” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he’s so neat, and so infernally obsessive. Drinking water at the same time every day?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he does. Three o’clock in the afternoon.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s just . . . the way he sits around and falls asleep; and then those incredible binges. He’s obviously depressed.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_52"></a>“Charles, he had some terrible times in World War II and sometimes he can’t hardly breathe with that asthma and emphysema or whatever. He never recovered from the war and Mama’s had to take care of him, don’t you see? And he won’t talk to anybody about what happened to him, except Uncle Newton—all night one night, they say. And Uncle Newton’s getting too sick for anybody to talk to, much. And he has to take those drugs for his nerves and his asthma. And he got that terrible burn on over fifty percent of his body. He’s got one big awful scar all over his body that he’ll have to carry with him all his life, plus his lungs from inhaling all that smoke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, there are lots of men who were wounded and had terrible times in World War II, and Vietnam, and World War I. They don’t necessarily sit around falling asleep all the time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Maybe they sleep at night, Charles. Maybe you don’t know all about what’s wrong with everybody, and maybe it’s something besides ‘psychology.’ I think part of the problem is you don’t think Uncle Nate likes you all that much.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s right. And where do you suppose I got that idea? He is obviously jealous. It’s not a great deal of fun being around that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s not the only other one in my family who you get to be around, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, he’s not the only other one; that’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It’s too bad Charles was a only child brought up without any family around. When he went to see a aunt or uncle, his mama and daddy had to carry him to another state. He just don’t have a single sense about family, about having family.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_53"></a>When Uncle Nate is sober he’s as nice as he can be. And you’ll never find anybody neater. His clothes are always pressed and starched. Well, Mama keeps them that way, but he keeps everything hung up and straight and folded. Then he’ll get drunk and filthy and come home and cuss something awful. And nobody able to do a thing unless it’s the law. Dorcus Kerr, the deputy sheriff, can usually handle him pretty well. Mama hates it when it comes to that. Daddy usually calls Dorcus, and Dorcus comes in his uniform. He puts it on if he’s off duty. Uncle Nate respects a uniform.</p>

  <p class="indentt">By Friday night, Uncle Nate had gotten sober on his own, thank goodness. After supper he wanted to hear “Give Me the Roses,” so Charles and me got out our instruments and did it. It’s one of our favorites too. It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">Wonderful things of folks are said<br />
  When they are passed away.<br />
  Roses adorn their narrow bed<br />
  Over the sleeping clay.<br />
  Give me the roses while I live,<br />
  Trying to cheer me on.<br />
  Useless are flowers that you give<br />
  After the soul is gone.</p>

  <p class="indentt">And it has a couple more verses.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy wanted to hear “Unclouded Day,” which Charles has been wanting to learn ever since I met him. We learned it about three weeks ago. So we did that, and then “Are You Tired of Me, My Darling?” and “Fifty Miles of Elbow Room,” two other Carter family tunes Daddy and Charles like. We tried to get everybody to sing on “Fifty <a id="page_54"></a>Miles,” but Uncle Nate and Daddy would be so far off key everybody would start laughing and that would get me laughing and that would get Charles laughing.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we finished singing, Uncle Nate told about the Christmas Uncle Pugg went to Raleigh to sell wreaths and holly and mistletoe and got lost and was too proud to ask anybody the way home. He slept that night in a church and the next morning the preacher saw him come out and asked him if he was the man who’d come to fix the steps. Uncle Pugg said he was. He had his tools in a box in the wagon. He fixed the steps and the preacher asked him to fix the roof and so he did that. Then the preacher asked him if he brought the window to put in. Uncle Pugg said he didn’t but that a man over in Bethel had the window and could the preacher tell him how to get there. The preacher told him, and Uncle Pugg came on home.</p>

  <p class="indent">At about ten o’clock when everybody else was going to bed, me and Charles walked out to the pier. Charles said he wasn’t even sure about the <em>names</em> of anybody in his family, besides his mama and daddy and aunts and uncles. I couldn’t imagine aunts and uncles not sitting around and telling all about <em>their</em> aunts and uncles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Out on the pier the breeze was steady and cool and the air had that fresh salty smell without the dead fish smell. The moon was coming up over the water, and waves hit against the poles, moving the pier the least bit. The moon was a dark red—because of the atmosphere, Charles said. He said it looks big at the horizon because it’s magnified by the air, which I’d never thought about. I always thought the orbit was closer when it came up, and then moved away. It sure <em>looks</em> <a id="page_55"></a>that way. Charles said the red was because of chemicals and such in the atmosphere. He knows about stuff I never think about. Anyway, the moon got whiter and higher and soon reflected white off the water.</p>

  <p class="indent">We stood against the rail, pushing our shoulders together, and Charles sung this little song:</p>

  <p class="poem">I see the moon and the moon sees me.<br />
  And the moon sees the one that I want to see.<br />
  God bless the moon and God bless me.<br />
  And God bless the one that I want to see.</p>

  <p class="indent">I love Charles more than anything. Sometimes he’s hard to get along with, and sometimes he has some problems with the family, but he makes up for it in all kinds of little ways, and he’s always praising my singing to other people. Daddy said he thought Charles had plenty of common sense beneath all that book learning, and then too at the wedding Daddy said he thought Charles was a good man.</p>

  <p class="indent">We came back home on Saturday and on the way Mama read to us out of a pamphlet she got in a drug store. It was about having a Christian home and the husband’s role and the wife’s role. I thought it made good sense, but Charles goes into a sermon right there in the back seat about customs being different in Bible times—which is not the point.</p>

  <p class="indentt">After we got back from the beach, and Charles got his rods separated out, and we drove on home and unpacked, and finished eating supper—some chili I froze before we left—Charles says, “I think I’ll call Johnny.” I had totally forgot to say anything about the vent or ask Charles if Johnny was a minority, but before I could say anything, Charles was on the <a id="page_56"></a>phone, talking about the beach trip. I was eating peaches for dessert and it didn’t seem like Charles minded me sitting there listening.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s got blue hair,” he said, “and talks more than anybody I ever met.” He was talking about you know who: Aunt Naomi, and eyeing me while he sat there, twisting the curly black phone cord around his finger. Then Johnny must have asked Charles what I looked like. “What does <em>she</em> look like?” said Charles, and looked at me and winked. “The most beautiful eyes I’ve ever seen, some kind of blue-green, and her front two teeth tuck back just enough to make her mouth cute, kind of pouty, and besides all that, she has the purest singing voice ever—can bend a note on a country song as good as any blues singer you ever heard. . . . What? No. No bad habits. Wait a minute. Raney, would you please leave the room?” Then he laughed and said I cussed too much which was a flip-flop because Charles is the one who cusses, and then he said the only fault he could think of was I didn’t give him any warning when I started a song and that I rubbed my nose straight up with the flat palm of my hand, but that was cute. Then he said none of my other faults were my fault.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought about going to the bedroom and listening through the vent, but that wouldn’t have been fair. Maybe it would have been fair if Charles was my child. Mama read my mail; but it was for my own interest. She said she wasn’t interested from curiosity, but for the sake of my well-being. So since Charles won’t my child and did have a peculiar reaction about privacy which I don’t understand, I decided I should tell him about the vent when he finished talking. But he talked so <em>long</em>. He told about the fish hook in Norris’s nose and then went <a id="page_57"></a>through Uncle Nate’s spelling lesson almost word for word and then some more about Aunt Naomi. He had good things to say about Daddy and Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished talking, Charles said Johnny said hello.</p>

  <p class="indent">I asked Charles what I dreaded: “Charles, is Johnny a minority?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s black, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A picture flashed in my mind of Mama and Daddy and Mary Faye and Norris and Uncle Nate and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and maybe a child of ours in the living room with Charles and his best friend, a nigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did you say something to him about coming here?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, not tonight. Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just wondered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Would that be a problem?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t guess so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t guess so?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, Charles, I know you were in the war together and everything but this ain’t exactly the war.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with our friendship?’</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Then why are we talking about this?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. The army has been segregated since 1948, you said, but Listre still has the black laundromat and the white laundromat and nobody complaining—neither side. Johnny might get embarrassed downtown, that’s all I’m worried about.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_58"></a>“You mean the army has been <em>integrated</em> since 1948.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I said.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You said <em>segregated</em>.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whatever.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, don’t worry about how Johnny might feel. He’s sensitive to racial issues. You don’t need to talk to a race horse about the race. He’s been there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What are you talking about?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I’m saying is that Johnny knows about towns like Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with a race horse?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Never mind. Don’t worry about it. He’s not coming anytime soon as far as I know. He’s busy with law school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">What happened with all this conversation about Johnny Dobbs was: I forgot to mention the vent.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_7">VI</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles’s mother called on the Monday after we got back from the beach and said she was going to Connecticut the first week in September to see her sister, Charles’s Aunt Sue, and would like to drop by to see us—on the way up (Monday, Monday night, and Tuesday), and on the way back down to Atlanta (Saturday night and Sunday). She asked if it would be all right, if three months had given us enough time to settle in. I told her it had. She said not to do any extra preparing.</p>

  <p class="indent">Lord, Lord. Last week was the big week. And it was not <a id="page_59"></a>smooth, like I’d hoped it would be. Charles had that meeting at our house—wouldn’t cancel it—on Monday night, then the Sneeds business was all over the newspaper on the following Saturday which we got in a argument about at Sunday dinner at Mama’s with Charles’s mother sitting right there in the middle of it, taking up for Sneeds. Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Not to speak of the fact that Charles and Millie went to an Episcopal Church Sunday morning—and dragged me along.</p>

  <p class="indent">I figured from the start we’d put Millie in the guest room. (She told me on the phone, again, to call her Millie.) Charles suggested <em>we</em> stay in the guest room and his mama stay in our room. I said a guest is a guest and that his mother was the guest and that’s what the room is: a guest room.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said his mother was not used to sleeping on a narrow bed. So I asked him what did he think I was used to sleeping on, and why didn’t he just give his mother the whole house and we’d move on down to the Landmark Motel for the duration.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a matter of principle for me and I won out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday, before she came on Monday, I vacuumed the whole place, cleaned the window panes in front, shined up the bathroom, and made the guest room a little nicer by putting in the radio alarm clock, our antique brass lamp, a wall mirror, a little table with some fruit in a bowl, and our biggest wedding picture. Then I realized the fruit bowl might draw gnats, so I took that out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday night Charles tells me about this meeting he’s planning to have at our house Monday night—whether his mama is there or not. He’s joined this thing called a TEA club; he’s been to several meetings and it was his turn to have the meeting <a id="page_60"></a>at our house. The TEA stands for Thrifty Energy Alternatives. I suddenly realized that with people coming to the meeting, and with Charles’s mother being there, I’d have to paint, or Charles would have to paint, the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, if you’ll paint that living room some color I can understand then I’ll be happy for you to have your meeting here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it as it is?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why do you think I’ve carried back those six sets of drapes?” See, Charles is just like a man. Has no more sense for color schemes than Bill Grogan’s goat. “They didn’t <em>go</em>. Nothing goes with that scum green tint. And Mama said none of them went. And for sure your mother and somebody at the meeting will notice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re telling me you don’t want the meeting over here unless I paint the living room?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Most certainly. And your mother can’t come unless you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney. Do you have some color in mind? My God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some off-white without that green in it. And I’ve told you about cussing in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You get the paint and I’ll paint it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I did. Saturday morning. And Charles painted the living room. Saturday afternoon, before he finished, I got these real nice gold and brown drapes that go. Then after that I got my hair done.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday afternoon Charles goes to the Winn Dixie for groceries and comes back with a bottle of <em>wine</em>. He didn’t even ask me—just brought it in as bright as day with the groceries, and I found it while I was unpacking.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_61"></a>“Charles, what’s this for?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The TEA meeting.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d rather not have wine in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, some of the people coming to the meeting will be bringing wine. I’d like also to have some available—for my own mother, anyway.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. Why do you need wine at a meeting?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“To drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t say anything else, partly because it involved Charles and his own mother and partly because it won’t champagne, which evidently does something to Charles’s brain, and partly, I suppose, because I thought of Madora. She drinks wine at meals, like the French, and she poured me some one afternoon a couple of weeks ago—by mistake: she knows I don’t drink. I took a sip, though, to see what all the fuss was about.</p>

  <p class="indent">Madora’s as fine a Christian as you’ll find—judging from what all she does for people, and how good she is to her mama and daddy. I drunk only one sip. I told her it was better than champagne. She said champagne <em>was</em> wine, which surprised me because they don’t taste the same at all.</p>

  <p class="indent">We picked up Millie at the airport at about one o’clock Monday afternoon. She was wearing dark green slacks and a blouse she seemed too old for, and she brought me a present—some of those little knitted soap holders I never use.</p>

  <p class="indent">We waited for her bags forever. She had two great big brown leather suitcases and one little one. Lord knows what all she had in there—for just one week.</p>

  <p class="indent">To get from the airport to Listre you have to go through Bethel, so on the way home we stopped in at Mama’s for a few minutes. Mama had insisted, and I thought it was a good idea.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_62"></a>Mama and Aunt Naomi were there, sitting in the living room, talking. They had been to a sale at Belks.</p>

  <p class="indent">Everybody said hello to everybody and we all sat down and Mama said something about the sale. She got a navy blue bedspread for forty percent off and Aunt Naomi got a throw rug and two lamp shades for half price. Then they mentioned that on the way back from the sale they’d stopped by the funeral home to see Hattie Rigsbee who had died of a stroke the day before.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She looked so good,” Mama said. “Her skin was clear, good color, no swelling.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve seen them awful swelled,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it happens worse when they have a heart attack and nobody gets there right away. I remember Wingate Bryant looked awful. They figured he died right after he went to bed, laid there all night and when Rose got up to go to work she figured he was still asleep, until she brought him a plate of spaghetti at lunch and there he was: still in bed. She worked at the school cafeteria,” she said to Millie, “across the street, and would bring him a plate of whatever they had. He was retired. From the telephone company.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember that,” says Mama. “You know, I do believe Hattie Rigsbee, today, was about the best looking corpse I’ve ever seen.” She looked straight at Millie, then at Charles, to get them in the conversation.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stands up and walks to the kitchen. I could tell he was mad about something; but Lord knows, I didn’t know what, and I hoped Mama and Aunt Naomi and Millie hadn’t noticed.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me put on some coffee,” I said, “and see if I can rustle <a id="page_63"></a>up some cookies.” I followed Charles on back to the kitchen and whispered, “Charles, what in the world is the matter with you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s the matter?” he whispers, staring. “What’s the matter? Did you hear what she said?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who?” I whispered.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who? Who? Your mother.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?” he whispers louder. “About the corpse looking good and all that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I guess I did. I was sitting there, won’t I? What in the world was wrong with that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it? It’s uncivilized—that’s what’s wrong with it. Raney, the body in the funeral home is not the person. It’s the person’s body. Why can’t your mother talk about the person, for God’s sake?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t you use profanity in this kitchen. And don’t get uppity because your mother’s here. What do you expect? They were being respectful of Hattie Rigsbee. That’s all. I’ll bet you didn’t even know she died.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Respect is not the word. Morbid is the word. No, I didn’t know Hattie Rigsbee died. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee was <em>born.</em>”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you should have. You been living around here long enough.” I was looking for cookies as hard as I could.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, we don’t live around here. We live in Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">About that time I heard Mama coming down the hall. She came on in the kitchen. “Look, it’s no need to mess with coffee,” she said. “Mrs. Shepherd says she needs to get on over to ya’ll’s house and get settled. Next Sunday you’re all invited <a id="page_64"></a>over here after church for dinner. Her airplane don’t leave until six-thirty so it’ll work out just right. And we can all go to church together Sunday morning.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We drove home and got Millie and all her bags settled in the guest room. I’d planned to fix a meatloaf for supper but remembered Sunday about her being a vegetarian. Charles said to fix omelettes but I’d never cooked a omelette so I had to call Madora for a recipe. I practiced Sunday night, so the real thing Monday night turned out pretty good. Millie helped.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had cooked—of all things—one of Aunt Flossie’s apple pies. He got her to show him exactly how to cook one—he likes them so much. After his mama had a piece she raved about it and asked <em>me</em> what the recipe was. That Charles just sat there smiling and did not say one thing until I explained to Millie that Charles fixed it, not me. She thought I was kidding until Charles talked through about the ingredients and how you fix it. I didn’t dare mention that I hadn’t ever taken on any kind of pie. This one was good. It was a little tart, but it was good.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was just beginning to relax when Millie asks, “Is there an Episcopal church nearby?” I had forgot about her changing over to the Episcopals.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There’s one in White Level,” says Charles. “Sara—at the library—goes there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re more than welcome to come to our church,” I said. “And since we’re going to eat at Mama’s, we’ll be close by.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really like the formality of the Episcopal service,” says Millie. “I’ve gotten used to it. Charles, give them a call this week and if they’re celebrating Eucharist Sunday morning at around ten or eleven, I could slip over for that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_65"></a>I didn’t know what a Eucharist was. Likely as not they’d be celebrating something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Or,” she says, “if you two like, you could come along with me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I could go to an Episcopal church,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why not?” they both said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’re against some of the things we believe in most.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, they serve real wine at the Lord’s supper. And they have priests, don’t they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes,” said Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I don’t especially approve of the way priests drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Jesus drank—if that’s what you mean—as I understand it,” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, he turned the water into wine at the wedding feast.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, but that was grape juice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Grape juice?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus turned water into wine on the spot,” I said, “it had to be grape juice because it didn’t have time to ferment.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a pause.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus could make wine,” says <em>Charles</em> (you could tell whose side he was on), “he could just as easily make it fermented as not, couldn’t he? Why mess around with half a miracle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve been going to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church for twenty-four years now,” I said, “and Mr. Brooks, Mr. Tolley, Mr. Honneycutt, and all these other men have been studying the Bible for all their lives and they say it’s grape juice. All added together they’ve probably studied the Bible over a hundred years. I’m not going to sit in my own kitchen and go against that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_66"></a>“But there are Buddhist monks,” says Charles, “who have studied religion for an accumulation of millions of years and they say Jesus was only a holy man and not the son of God. You can find anybody who’s studied something for X number of years. I’m not sure what that proves.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“These Buddhist monks were not studying the Bible,” I said. “They were studying the <em>Koran</em>. We talked about that in Sunday School.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they were studying the <em>Koran,</em>” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You’re talking about Islam.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, the point is: I’m not talking about the Bible. If it’s not in the Bible I’m not interested in it because if I have to stop believing in the Bible I might as well stop living on earth.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Here, let’s get the dishes washed up,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I appreciate your faith—I guess it’s a small matter anyway. Sometimes I think we spend too much time on relatively picky religious matters.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It won’t no <em>picky</em> matter to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">While we were cleaning up I saw where Charles got his habit of taking the strainer out of the sink and leaving it out, and turning on the faucet and leaving it on. But I didn’t say anything. She was nice to help.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we finished cleaning up, somebody knocked on the front door. That durn TEA Club meeting. I felt like I hadn’t had time to get my bearings.</p>

  <p class="indent">The meeting was something, and Millie joined in just like she knew everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was this woman dressed in rags who brought her <a id="page_67"></a>baby in a sack on her back. Looked like she’d just walked away from a plane crash with her baby all tangled up in her clothes. What’s more, she was cock-eyed. Looked like she was looking in two directions at once. Like those pictures of John Kennedy.</p>

  <p class="indent">There were more unusual people there. But listen to what the meeting was about: they all, including Charles, and his mama, just flown in from Atlanta, are dead set against the Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant being built north of here.</p>

  <p class="indent">That takes a lot a gall. These scientists have been working for years to get this plant built and Charles and these, well . . . a couple of them looked like hippies to me, and there was a doctor and two college teachers who looked like they don’t eat right and the one with the baby—they all get together and in about fifteen minutes decide that the nuclear power plant has got to go. Has got to <em>go</em>, mind you.</p>

  <p class="indent">They haven’t hurt anything at the power plant. And electricity certainly has to come from somewhere.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was in Pope’s the other day and the mayor, Mr. Crenshaw, was talking to Mrs. Moss. He said the power plant was the best thing that ever happened to Listre—that it would bring new jobs and make taxes lower.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now he’s the mayor. He’s somebody I can listen to. Somebody with a respectable position in the community who <em>has</em> to know what he’s talking about, else he wouldn’t be mayor.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes I believe these hippies and college professors sit around and frown and complain about what’s helping a community most.</p>

  <p class="indent">Look at the war. These hippies and such were telling the people who knew the most about it how to run it. So we lost. Now they’re doing the same thing with this power plant. Do <a id="page_68"></a>you see the people from the power plant telling the hippies how to be hippies? No, because they don’t know anything about it. So they keep their mouths shut.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles told me I could come up front to the meeting but I stayed back in the kitchen. After about thirty minutes, Millie did come back and talk to me about how nice Charles and me had fixed up the house. She had a glass of wine, but that’s the only one she drunk as far as I know. I never thought I’d see wine under a roof I lived under. Live and learn. I won’t be a prude; but I do have principles and I will certainly keep close guard on what goes on. We’re not going to have any alcohol under this roof for more than twelve hours, and otherwise only on some special occasions of Charles’s. And when we have a child we’ll have to discuss the whole thing very seriously. I never saw a drop of alcohol at home except in a bottle Uncle Nate brought in.</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Millie about Charles painting the living room and she thought it was funny about not being able to find any drapes to go with the old paint. She said Charles had a good “role model” for fixing up around the house because Bill, Dr. Shepherd, had always helped her. I thought about Daddy. He’s never done anything, as far as I can remember, inside the house. He works outside, but not inside. I don’t think Mama wants him working in the house. She certainly never lets anybody do anything in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles won’t do a thing outside but pull up crabgrass out of the sidewalk cracks once in a while. I don’t know why he gets such a kick out of that. I think it’s connected somehow to his strange ideas about germs. He buys these big jars of alcohol to clean the bathroom sink with. I’ve seen him through the bathroom door—through the crack. He’ll scrub around the <a id="page_69"></a>hole in the bottom of the sink with a ball of cotton soaked in alcohol. Lord knows where else he scrubs. I’ll bet he goes through a bottle of alcohol every two weeks. I go in there some mornings and it smells like County Hospital. I started to ask Millie about that but I didn’t. Maybe he got it from her. (It’s funny what all you find out about your husband after you get married.)</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished the meeting, Charles came back to the kitchen and showed me this letter they wrote with Charles’s name signed. Charles asked me what I thought. I said if they all wrote it, why didn’t they all sign it? This is the letter. Millie told him a couple of words to change.</p>

  <p class="noindent1"><small>DEAR EDITOR:</small></p>

  <p class="indent">A state geologist has recently claimed that an area near the proposed Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant is ideal for a hazardous waste disposal site. One of the reasons given is the low population of the area. I suppose the reasoning is that if there are problems, then fewer people will suffer.</p>

  <p class="indent">It occurs to me that any reason to NOT put something in a highly populated area should also be a good reason NOT to put it in an area of low population.</p>

  <p class="indent">The sad fact is that problems of nuclear waste disposal are not solved. This generation should not be making decisions that will cause future generations to suffer horrible consequences.</p>

  <p class="right"><em>Charles Shepherd</em></p>

  <p class="indent">Charles took off work Tuesday afternoon; we took his mama to the airport; and when we got back home we had a little talk which turned into a argument.</p>

  <p class="indent">I merely asked Charles why he has to be friends with these college professors and such—why he can’t be friends with my friends. He went with me <em>once</em> to see Madora and her husband, Larry. And Sandra and Billy Ferrell have asked us over for supper twice and he wouldn’t go either time. I know they won’t ask us again.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_70"></a>“<em>These</em> people <em>think,</em>” he says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Think?” I said. “Who <em>don’t</em> think? Everybody thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean think about something important, something beyond the confines of their own lives.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What is that supposed to mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means getting beyond Listre and Bethel. That’s what it means. Raney, the way it works is this: small people talk about themselves; mediocre people talk about other people; and thinking people talk about ideas.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with anything?” I said. See, what happens is: Charles spouts out this stuff he’s read in the library and expects the words to be formed in gold in my head. But I’m sorry.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It has to do with who I want to be friends with,” says Charles. “Madora and—what’s his name?—Larry are not interested in anything outside their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll have you know,” I said, “that Madora and Larry go to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church. Don’t tell me that Jesus Christ is only in their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The problem,” says Charles, “the whole problem is just that: Jesus wouldn’t have a kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He would if he lived in Bethel.” I tried to let that sink in. “No matter what your mama thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why are you bringing her into this?” (I wasn’t sure.) “Raney. Jesus Christ was a radical. If the people at Bethel Free Will Baptist met Jesus they’d laugh at him . . . or lynch him.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_71"></a>“A radical? Charles, I had a personal experience with Jesus Christ when I was twelve years old. He wasn’t a radical then. And I did not laugh. As a matter of fact, I cried.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Were you saved, Raney? Is that it? Were you saved and now you’re going to heaven and nothing else matters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, and I was mad, “you can run down whoever and whatever you want to, but when you run down my experience with Jesus Christ you are putting yourself below the belly of a hog.” I was tore up. I had to cry. I walked out of the kitchen, into the bedroom and slammed the door with both hands as hard as I could; and Charles goes out the front door and drives off. And didn’t come back for thirty minutes.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_8">VII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We didn’t speak Wednesday or Thursday, but had started warming up some on Friday. Then Friday night we went to see a movie—some awful thing Charles wanted to see—and then Saturday morning the Sneeds business was all over <em>The Hansen County Pilot</em>. As I said, Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Sneeds Perry. I don’t know him except from when I go in the store. He’s always seemed nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">What he did was get arrested in Raleigh at two <small>A.M</small>. Friday night for trying to pick up this woman he <em>thought</em> was a you-know-what but instead was a policewoman. They caught him red-handed. And then the whole subject had to come up at Sunday dinner with Mrs.—, with Millie, there visiting.</p>

  <p class="indent">She came back Saturday night on the airplane, which was <a id="page_72"></a>late, and I could of sworn I smelled liquor on her breath. Then we had to wait for all those suitcases, which we loaded into the trunk and carted home and into the guest room again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had found out that the Episcopal service started at 10:30 <small>A.M.</small> Sunday and that they were having that Eucharist, so they decided they’d go for sure and Millie wanted to know if I was going with them. They seemed like they wanted me to, so I said yes. I wanted to see what the service was like, if nothing else.</p>

  <p class="indent">The service was the most unusual church service you’ve ever seen. First of all, I didn’t know any of the hymns, and <em>neither did the regular people there</em>. You’d expect the regular people there to know their own hymns. They wandered all around on notes that didn’t have anything to do with the melody and, all in all, didn’t sing with any spunk. And they kept kneeling on these teenie-tiny benches. It was up and down, up and down. I got right nervous looking out the corner of my eye to see when it was up and when it was down.</p>

  <p class="indent">The priest had a yellow robe with a butterfly on the back. Now that is plum sacrilegious if you ask me. A house of worship is no place to play Halloween.</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the most surprising things of all was that the very thing you come to church to hear wasn’t there. A sermon. There was no sermon. The priest talked about three minutes on hope and people in the ghettos, which may have been a sermon to him, but not to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">They had the Lord’s supper, but they didn’t pass it around. You had to go up front, kneel down (of course), and get it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was a little nervous about drinking real wine in church. But when I thought about it I ended up figuring maybe that <a id="page_73"></a>was the best place to do it and God would forgive me. It was red wine and about knocked my socks off. It was stronger somehow than Madora’s white wine and that expensive stuff that I tried in the kitchen at Charles’s TEA party. (That bottle had the price tag on it. Six dollars and something. It seemed like to me it should have cost less because it kind of disappeared once you got it in your mouth.) I want you to know the priest gulped down every bit that was left over at the end. That was an education to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">All in all, it just wasn’t <em>set up</em> like a church service. I must admit, several people were nice after the service, but most of them had Yankee accents. They were probably people who’ve come down to work at the new G.E. plant outside White Level.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said he liked it—that it was “formal.” I didn’t see anything formal about it. It was confusing to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie were at Mama’s for Sunday dinner, along with the rest of us. Everybody seemed happy to see Millie and she seemed likewise. I was a little tense. For one thing I was worried that the Sneeds business would come up, but I figured it wouldn’t—not at Sunday dinner.</p>

  <p class="indent">We got seated, Mama asked Charles to say the blessing; he did; and we started helping ourselves.</p>

  <p class="indent">I passed the okra to Aunt Naomi. She helped her plate and says, “You want some okra, son?” and passed the bowl to Charles. “We won’t get much more this year.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, thanks,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No? You don’t like okra?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nope.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_74"></a>“Well, I declare. That’s surprising. Have you ever had it fried before?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I can’t remember. I don’t think so. I’ve had it boiled.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hadn’t ever fried any okra for this boy?” Mama says to Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’ve never been much on okra, somehow,” says Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you ain’t had nothing until you’ve had some good fried okra,” says Aunt Naomi, and she drops a piece onto Charles’s plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember when I was a little girl no older than Mary Faye there,” says Aunt Naomi. “I couldn’t stand boiled okra because it was so slimy. For some reason, that’s the only way my mama ever fixed it. So I know what you mean. Then when I was, oh, about a teenager, I got aholt of some good fried okra. Mercy me—better than pop corn, with just a tiny hint of fried oyster flavor. Do you like fried oysters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do,” said Charles. He was staring at the piece of fried okra on his plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pop corn?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, then, you’ll love fried okra. Go ahead, try it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Aw, go ahead. You’ll love it; I guarantee. Then when you go home your mama can fix it for you, can’t you, Millie?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles ate the piece of okra. It <em>was</em> good okra.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now, ain’t that good?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was pretty good,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi gets the bowl and hands it to Charles. “Well, here, get you out some.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_75"></a>“No thanks,” said Charles. “I’m just fine. I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I declare,” says Aunt Naomi. “I’m surprised. I thought for sure you’d love it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the bowl back and Daddy asked him if he saw the Braves game Saturday and they started talking while Aunt Naomi says, “I don’t know what I’d do without my fried okra. That and turnip salet. Why I could make a meal off turnip salet and cornbread, two meals a day for a month. There just ain’t <em>nothing</em> any better. Nothing. Doris, your favorite was always cabbage, won’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I always liked turnip salet too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I hate it,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hate everything,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll went to the Episcopal church in White Level?” says Aunt Naomi. She was looking at Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did. It was really nice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they have a priest like the Catholics?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, they do,” said Millie. “I think their duties might be a bit different, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they make them preach in a certain town where they assign them—like in the army?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They don’t,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made many a meal on turnip salet and cornbread,” says Uncle Nate. He had his hair slicked straight back, like <a id="page_76"></a>always, and was wearing a white starched shirt with the collar open. “And Aunt Annie’s nigger, Monkey—remember how he used to all the time talk about drinking turnip green pot liquor?”</p>

  <p class="indent">That got Charles’s and Millie’s attention. I was afraid Charles was going to go into his speech about saying “nigger” but he didn’t, thank goodness. And Millie didn’t, thank goodness. (Charles is sitting there with a big hunk of cream potatoes on his plate, no gravy, two pieces of chicken, a piece of roast beef, a pickle and a piece of cornbread and a roll. No vegetables. He will not get any healthy recipes from Aunt Flossie: only apple pie, fried chicken, and such. It’s a wonder he don’t get pimples—again. You can tell where he had them a little bit when he was a teenager. Pock marks. I can’t imagine how he gets his system cleaned out. It looks like somebody who works in a library would have more sense about what to eat. And Charles ain’t the type to shun new things. His mother, of course, had just the opposite: a plate full of vegetables.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s pot liquor?” says Charles to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate had his mouth full, which don’t usually stop him from talking—as Charles has pointed out to me on the way home so many times that now <em>I</em> notice. But this time he kept chewing and didn’t answer.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie answered: “It’s what’s left in the pot after cooking cabbage—usually cabbage. Course I’ve seen collard and turnip green pot liquor.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That sounds interesting,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?” asks Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” said Uncle Nate, swallowing his potatoes, <a id="page_77"></a>“Uncle Springer took Monkey to Raleigh one Christmas to sell quail and they—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, that was just his name, I reckon. Anyway, they got snowed in and there was a light bulb in the room where they spent the night in somebody’s house. For some reason Monkey ended up staying with Uncle Springer in the same room. Anyway, Uncle Springer hadn’t ever seen a light bulb and of course Monkey hadn’t and they didn’t know it had a durn switch on it to cut it off and so before they went to bed—I imagine Monkey slept on the floor—before they went to bed they put a chest of drawers up on another table and some chairs and so on and put the durn light bulb—course they didn’t know it unscrewed either—they put the durn light bulb in the top drawer and closed it and then went to bed and got a good night’s sleep.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d heard that story once or twice but I knew Charles and Millie hadn’t. It’s a funny story but of course Charles don’t like to hear nothing about niggers unless it’s how Martin Luther King laid down in some restaurant or something. As I said, he has this thing.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wadn’t that terrible about Sneeds Perry?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything. Somebody passed something and a few forks hit plates.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to Mr. Perry?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything and Norris looked around at everybody. “What happened to Mr. Perry?” he said again.</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed through my mind: Sneeds paying one of those women to do what Charles had said for us to do on our honeymoon. “He got in trouble,” I said. “For being where he ought not to be and doing what he ought not to do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_78"></a>“What did he do?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He solicited something from a policewoman which he thought he was soliciting from a woman of the night,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“A witch?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I wouldn’t say that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think if a man wants to ruin his life in one night by breaking the law, then that’s the chance he takes,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you think he wanted to ruin his life?” said Charles. “That’s not exactly what he had in mind, do you think?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what happened,” said Aunt Naomi. “Now he won’t be able to get a job within fifty miles—at any place respectable that is. It’s a good thing he don’t have a family.” Aunt Naomi looked at Daddy. “You will have to let him go.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t decided,” said Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy, he was arrested,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re going to let him keep working out at the store?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I hadn’t thought about—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, you read what he did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know I read what he did. He ain’t been tried yet either.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He won’t buying peaches,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Peaches?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “it seems like he’d hurt business with a criminal record.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s a misdemeanor, I think,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s a misdemeanor?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush a minute, Norris,” said Mama. “It’s a minor crime.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_79"></a>“What did he do?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He didn’t do anything that would have been a great harm to anybody,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought, “<em>Charles</em>, you talk about <em>harm</em>, about <em>not harming</em>—after that on our honeymoon!”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He broke God’s law, that’s what he did,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought for sure you’d fire him, Thurman,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not going to fire a man that ain’t been convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We were quiet for a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Didn’t your church group do a thing on victimless crimes?” Charles asked his mama. “It’s a pretty interesting perspective.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes. The idea was, really, that some acts—without victims—ought to have a low priority on the list of things demanding law enforcement. That is, those crimes would be attended only after the crimes with victims were tended to. That way people would actually be better protected in the long run, because the police would spend more time solving robbery and assault cases and the like, and institutions like churches and mental health clinics could concentrate on the victimless crimes—given the proper support, of course.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed in my mind again about what these prostitutes probably do, and I wondered if Mrs. Shepherd maybe had any idea, and I wondered what she thought about all that. She might think it’s okay! I wondered if some of Charles’s attitudes could have somehow come from her—if she had the same weakness Charles had. If Charles’s weakness came from her! I remembered her and Mr. Shepherd hugging and kissing in front of everybody at the wedding. Putting on like that. I wondered about all the connections. How can you tell? You can’t ask!</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_80"></a>“I don’t know what victims has to do with all this,” said Aunt Naomi. “You don’t need to have a victim to break the word of God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If a you-know-what is not a victim,” says Mama, “I don’t know who is—but I haven’t studied all that about different kinds of crimes.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “what if he is convicted? You’ll fire him then, won’t you? I mean if he’s convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see what difference it makes whether he’s convicted. He done it. Anybody knows that,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Daddy. “I’d want to wait and see what happens.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I had never thought about Daddy keeping somebody on the job who’d do something like that. But the problem is: it didn’t seem to make any difference to about half the table sitting in my own mama’s house for Sunday dinner, every one kin to me in some way. I don’t understand why people won’t take a stand where they ought to. Especially my own daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s your store,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Things got quiet again, except for forks hitting on dishes and Uncle Nate chewing with his mouth open.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Millie, did you hear about Norris getting the fishing hook hung in his nose at the beach?” said Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, I did. Charles told me on the phone. That must have been something. Were you afraid, Norris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was afraid when it first happened. I thought a bird or something had flew up my nose.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed and then Uncle Nate told about the time one of Uncle Springer’s boys told his little brother to stick his tongue to a froze ax. We’d all heard it but Millie and Charles hadn’t. That got Uncle Nate into telling about the first car <a id="page_81"></a>Uncle Springer ever saw that had a rear view mirror on the inside and Uncle Springer says, “I comb <em>my</em> hair <em>before</em> I leave home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Springer was the one who was so bashful that on his wedding night he peed down his leg into the pot so he wouldn’t make any noise. So they <em>say</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The stories eased the tension some. For me, anyway. We finished eating; Mama and Aunt Flossie cleaned up; then we sat and talked for awhile. At about two-thirty we left and drove home. I could tell Charles was getting tired of sitting and talking. Then at about five o’clock we took Millie and those big suitcases to the airport.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before she got on the plane, she gave me a big hug and a kiss. I hugged her back but didn’t have time to figure out where to kiss her before we’d turned each other loose. I’ve just never hugged and kissed people I don’t know real well. Or people I do know real well, for that matter.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_9">VIII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">It won’t Sneeds they arrested. It was Sam Perry, Sneeds’s first cousin. The newspaper got it mixed up because Sam signed Sneeds’s name and gave Sneeds’s address, and at the police station he actually had the driver’s license that Sneeds thought he’d lost. Daddy said Sam told Sneeds he didn’t want his wife and kids to find out and he figured Sneeds wouldn’t mind. Sneeds told Daddy that Sam had done the same thing before and so he wadn’t too surprised. I can’t believe somebody would do something like that to their own cousin.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_82"></a>I was in the store Saturday morning trying to figure out whether I should mention the whole thing to Sneeds when Charles called and said to call Mama. I did, and she wanted to know if I could come over and stay with Norris and Mary Faye that afternoon while she went to sit with Uncle Newton—while Aunt Minnie helped with the church barbecue. Aunt Minnie is Daddy’s sister and has had an awful time taking care of Uncle Newton. She has to stay with him all the time. Charles was supposed to play tennis that afternoon with somebody from the library, so I said I’d be glad to come over and help out.</p>

  <p class="indent">The only reason Mama wanted me to stay is because Uncle Nate had disappeared for two days and she was afraid he might come riding up in a Yellow Cab, drunk, with nobody at home but Mary Faye and Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I went over Saturday at about two. Right before Mama drove off she blew the police whistle for Mary Faye and Norris, who were up the road at Teresa Campbell’s house, to come on home. When she saw them coming—on their bicycles—she got in the car and drove off.</p>

  <p class="indent">She was just out of sight around the curve when Norris, going about fifty miles an hour, turned, or tried to turn, into the driveway—on his Piggly Wiggly Special (that bike he won at the Piggly Wiggly opening: with a row of little red glass rubies up and down the fenders, and a saddle bag, and black rubber mud flaps, and sticking right out front under where the handlebars come together, this solid cast, little brown and white pig head). He had just passed Mary Faye, <a id="page_83"></a>going as fast as he could, standing up. Then he sat back down and turned about one foot short of the edge of the driveway. The front wheel dipped into the ditch; the bike stopped; and he made a arc through the air—landing full on his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I got to him he was sitting on the ground looking at his right hand like he’d never seen it before. His thumb was drooped down like a broke tree limb, and where it connected to his hand looked like a golf ball.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye was standing there. “That thumb is broke, Norris. You can’t move it, can you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris looked up at her, then at me, then at his thumb, and started bawling. I gathered myself as best I could. “Come on,” I said. “We’ll take you to emergency, right now. Do you hurt anywhere else?” All I could do was take him to the emergency room. That was the only thing to do. His hand looked awful.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris said No he wadn’t hurting anywhere else, and stood up slow, crying, holding his hurt hand up and in front with his other hand like he was carrying a bunch of flowers.</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t walked no more than ten steps when a Yellow Cab pulls into the driveway. It was like the ocean had pulled in and was about to drown everything. I just stopped and stood there. “Oh <em>no</em>,” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll stay right here,” I said. It was clear I had to take over. I’d have to do what Mama would do, which was take over. I walked to the driver’s side of the taxi. The driver was a pale little man with short red and gray hair, a scrawny mustache, and no teeth. “Howdy,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Howdy, ma’am.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I looked through at Uncle Nate sitting on the passenger side. His head was down like he was asleep. “Uncle Nate, you <a id="page_84"></a>ought to be ashamed of yourself.” He didn’t even look up. “Mary Faye, ya’ll go on up and sit down on the porch. No, wait a minute. Go in and call Aunt Minnie and tell her to tell Mama, when she gets there, to come back home and sit with Uncle Nate—that it looks like Norris broke his thumb and I got to take him to emergency. Tell her his thumb is all that’s hurt. Tell her it might just be out of place. Ask Aunt Minnie if she minds being a little late for the barbecue.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know the number.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s in that address thing—under Minnie.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir,” I said to the cab driver. “Can you wait one minute while I figure out what to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No problem. Meter’s running.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, I ought to call the sheriff right now. If I didn’t have to take care of Norris, I would.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked up. “Where’s Doris at?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s on the way to Aunt Minnie’s, to sit with Uncle Newton.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How’s ole Newt?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s okay, I guess. He’s <em>sober</em>. That’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Me and Newt were in the war together,” Uncle Nate said to the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, he don’t care. Can you get out? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. I’m in the middle of Norris’s broke thumb and here you show up, drunk, and probably without one cent. Have you got any money?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stuck his hand down in his front pocket.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He said his sister would pay,” said the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I figured,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye came out. “The line’s busy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris was sitting on the front steps. He started crying, and <a id="page_85"></a>then hollering. “Oh, it’s starting to hurt! Ohhhh!” He was holding his hand down between his legs, rocking back and forth, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Elevate it—hold it up,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They might have to take it off,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was standing there in the front yard, knowing I had to make a decision. I decided Uncle Nate would have to go to the emergency room with us. There was nothing else to do. I went around to the passenger side and opened the door. Or I could call the sheriff. Or I could send him over to Uncle Newton’s in the taxi and let Mama look after him. No, that would get Uncle Newton all upset. But Uncle Nate was about asleep. That was good. I figured if he’d stay in the car at emergency, everything would be okay.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir, would you please help me get him in the back seat of my car over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yeah, I’ll help,” said the cab driver. “That’s a broke thumb if ever I seen one.” He’d caught a glimpse of Norris’s thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know. I’ve got to get him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We got Uncle Nate out of the taxi and into the back seat of my car. He went right on down, laying on his side in the seat with his feet in the floor. His shirt tail was out on the side and his hair was pushed up in back with little flecks of white thread or something all in there.</p>

  <p class="indent">I paid the taxi driver; Norris and Mary Faye got in the car, up front with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stopped crying about halfway to the emergency room, and when we turned into the hospital driveway, Uncle Nate sat up. “Is Newt up here?” he said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Newton’s at home, Uncle Nate. Norris hurt his thumb and we’re having to take him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_86"></a>“Less see that thumb, boy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris held up his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, that ain’t nothing.” He leaned up right behind me. “Raney.” I could smell his breath. I was almost afraid of him. I had this flash thought of him grabbing me around the neck, although Uncle Nate is normally pretty gentle, drunk or sober, except when he’s drunk and gets mad and cusses. “Raney, where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at Uncle Newton’s. I told you a minute ago.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We pulled the car up close to the emergency room door and stopped. “Now, Uncle Nate, you stay right here. I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Does Mary Faye and Norris remember me and Newt were in the war together?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yessir,” I said. “Now please stay in the the back seat, Uncle Nate. Will you do that? I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I certainly will. You know I love you, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I got out and came around and opened the door for Norris. He had stopped crying. He got out, holding his hand up with that thumb dangling, and we all started in, except for Uncle Nate. I looked back. He was sitting with his head slumped over.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the emergency room door, I said, “Mary Faye, stand right here at the door, and if Uncle Nate gets out of the car, you come in and tell me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to go in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mary Faye.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I won’t know where you’re at,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, what are they going to do to it?” says Norris, looking up at me with bloodshot eyes.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Norris.” I looked at Mary Faye. “Do what you have to do, Mary Faye—for goodness sakes. They’re going to fix it, Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_87"></a>We all three went in through the door. Some people were sitting in chairs and there was a big nurse across the room at a desk. Two nigger orderlies were sitting behind her—smoking cigarettes and wearing those little green scarf hats with strings hanging down beside their ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked up to the desk. The nurse asked a bunch of questions and about time I finished answering them all I hear this loud, banging crash behind me at the door. I look, and there’s Uncle Nate: sitting on the floor, half in and half out the emergency room door. Some woman wearing a dress, brown shoes, and white socks jumped up and rushed over to him. I started toward him, but Norris almost hollered, “Raney, wait a minute, what are they going to do? It hurts!” The orderlies stood up to look at Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman with white socks said, “This man needs help! His eyeballs is rolled back!” The orderlies started running toward Uncle Nate, pushing a table-bed. I heard the woman say, “I think he had a stroke,” and before I could say anything—Norris was holding on to my arm with his good hand—the orderlies had Uncle Nate on the bed, rolling him right by me. “Wait a minute, he’s my uncle!” I said. They stopped. And here Uncle Nate sort of came around and started cussing the orderlies terrible.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate stop that right now or I’m going to call Dorcus Kerr to come get you and take you to jail. You all unstrap him from there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That woman said he had a stroke,” said one orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t let him off there,” said the other one.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you were with this boy,” said the nurse to me.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_88"></a>“Raney, I don’t want to get it operated on,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You <em>better</em> be <em>quiet</em>,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m with both of them,” I said to the nurse. “This one’s drunk; he didn’t have a stroke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the orderlies pulled a strap tighter on Uncle Nate. Uncle Nate was cussing him awful. “And where you got Newt?” he said to the one closest to his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t got no Newt. What you talking about, man?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young woman, we’re not equipped to handle alcoholism,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I didn’t bring him to the emergency room,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who brought this man?” said the nurse to everybody in the emergency room. Then she said to me. “Is your mother here?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris pulled at my arm. The woman with the white socks came walking up. “I thought he might a had a stroke,” she said. “His eyes was rolled back and all. It was that way with my granddaddy. He had a stroke last year and when—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I brought him,” I said, “but I left him in the car and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney!” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Somebody has to take care of his thumb,” I said to the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got papers in on him,” said the nurse. “The doctor will be here in a minute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you feel?” said the woman with socks—to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel like if I don’t get off this goddamned table in five seconds, I’m gone whip ass when I do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m gonna strap your ass down so tight your eyeballs’ll pop out,” said the orderly. “Then I’m calling the police.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_89"></a>“<em>I’ll</em> call the law,” I said. “You don’t know who to call.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The hell I don’t.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Jerry,” said the nurse. “I’ll call Security.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Call the goddamned Security,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was Mary Faye and Norris standing there hearing all that.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, please be quiet. You’re in trouble. Don’t make it worse.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was in trouble when I was born.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not like you gonna be,” said the orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stop egging him on,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked the doctor, thank the Lord. The nurse was on the phone: “Donald, send somebody to emergency. We’ve got a man disturbing the peace.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s his name?” said the doctor. He was picking up a clipboard.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ask her,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">The doctor looked at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate,” I said. “Nate Purvis.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s your uncle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me see that thumb, Nate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Norris,” Norris said, his eyes great big.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Excuse me, Norris. Let me see that thumb.” He held Norris by the wrist and turned his hand around. “Hummm. Let’s go get an x-ray. <em>This</em> man is your uncle, then,” he said to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir, and he’s drunk. He shouldn’t even be in here. I left him outside.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Have you got a car?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_90"></a>“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Joe Cisco,” he said. He smiled and reached out his hand. “Looks like you could use a little help.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I took his hand, tried my best to hold back, but I couldn’t help crying. I straightened right back up though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be right back and we can get him in your car,” he said. Then he took Norris down the hall; Norris looked back over his shoulder—still holding that hand up like he was carrying flowers; the nurse asked the orderlies to sit down; and then Dr. Cisco came back while they were taking the x-ray. He helped me roll Uncle Nate to the car, then get him off the table and in the back seat—with no trouble, since Uncle Nate had passed out. I saw the empty pint in Uncle Nate’s back pocket. I hadn’t thought to look before. When a security guard walked up, Dr. Cisco explained that everything was all right. Dr. Cisco was a blessing from heaven.</p>

  <p class="indent">He told us to wait in the car and that after he took care of Norris he’d bring him out. Sometimes I get to thinking there’s not one nice person left in the world and then somebody like Dr. Cisco comes along.</p>

  <p class="indent">It turned out that Norris’s thumb was just out of place. It must have been very out of place. Dr. Cisco taped it up over a piece of metal and told me to bring him back in a week unless a problem came up. He stood there at the car and talked a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate won’t so simple. He begged me to take him to the liquor store, saying he just needed one more little drink to hold him over. I did not take him, of course.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got home he was asleep or passed out. I left him in the car while I called Mama. She called Juanita Bowles to come sit with Uncle Newton and then came on home. We had a terrible time getting Uncle Nate up the front steps.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_91"></a>Daddy came home right after we got Uncle Nate in the door. “Nate, you’re going to get drunk one time too many and get robbed <em>and</em> shot instead of just robbed,” said Daddy. Uncle Nate’s billfold is always empty when he comes home drunk. Uncle Nate started cussing Daddy, which is the first time that’s ever happened, as far as I know.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama called Dorcus Kerr who came out and arrested Uncle Nate. There was nothing else to do. Uncle Nate spent three days in jail, drying out. That’s how long it takes. Mama took him every one of his meals except his last one which was Tuesday lunch. I had to be uptown anyway so I told Mama I could do it and then bring him home when they let him out at three in the afternoon. I’m old enough now.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dorcus Kerr was at the jail. “I declare, I hate to see this happen, Raney,” he said. “When he’s sober he’s one of the nicest men I know, but I declare, then he has to go and do the way he does; and you all have always been so good to him—your daddy giving him work and all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t see anybody else in any of the jail cells except Uncle Nate. He was sitting in a chair, leaning back against the wall. His hair was combed straight back with Vitalis, like always, and he was wearing a freshly starched white shirt Mama had brought him. Mr. Kerr opened the door with a big set of keys.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hey, girl,” said Uncle Nate. “Where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He looked okay except for his eyes which were red and cloudy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_92"></a>“How do you feel?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel pretty good. Raney, I’m sorry. You know I wouldn’t do anything in the world to hurt you all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know you wouldn’t, Uncle Nate.” I started to say, “But you <em>do—over and over and over.</em>” Then I saw his hand shaking while he pulled at his ear.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made a decision this time. I’m quitting. I’m getting the shakes. Look at my hands. I can’t get them any stiller than that. I’m just going to have to tell myself to quit and then do it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know you can’t take that first drink, Uncle Nate. It’s all over when you do that. You’ve got to have the strength to say no. There’s plenty of people who do it. And Mama has done everything she can, as you well know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has. She has. She sure has.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m glad you’re going to stop, Uncle Nate. You’ve said that before, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“This is the first time I’ve had the shakes like this. Look at that.” He looked at his hands, then at me. “How is Newton? Didn’t somebody take him to the hospital Sunday—or Saturday?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nobody took him to the hospital, but he’s not doing too good. That was Norris I took. He knocked his thumb out of joint, but it’s doing okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a little fighter, ain’t he?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He sure is. Here, you better eat your dinner. I’ll be back at three. I need to do a little shopping. You need anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some Scholl’s footpads. Size 9-C.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I came back at three and picked up Uncle Nate and took him by home and then on out to the store. He usually works <a id="page_93"></a>out there in the afternoons. He’s never been able to do any more than just help out, of course, but it helps Daddy be able to come and go and oversee instead of being there with Sneeds all the time—one of them tending pumps while the other works inside. When Daddy had a chance to get all self-service pumps he turned them down, so he needs Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_94"></a></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-06-14 20:43:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:01 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-06-14 20:43:02 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:03 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-06-14 20:43:05 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:05 INFO  - Step 25 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-06-14 20:43:06 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:43:06 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-14 20:43:07 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:08 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Raney</title>
  <link href="../Styles/9781616202132.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
<p><a id="part01"></a></p>
  <h2 class="h2" id="part1"><a id="page_1"></a>PART ONE<br />
  <br />
  <em>Blood Kin</em></h2>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_2"></a></p>

  <p class="center"><a id="page_3"></a>LISTRE, NORTH CAROLINA<br />
  APRIL 18, 1975</p>

  <p class="centert"><small>FROM THE</small> <em>Hansen County Pilot</em>:</p>

  <p class="noindent">BETHEL—Mr. and Mrs. Thurman A. Bell announce the engagement of their daughter, Raney, to Charles C. Shepherd of Atlanta, Georgia. Mr. Bell owns the Hope Road General Store and the family attends Bethel Baptist Church. Raney graduated from Chester F. Knowles High School where she was in the school band and various other activities. She attended Listre Community College.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles Shepherd, the son of Dr. and Mrs. William Shepherd of Atlanta, is the assistant librarian at Listre Community College. Dr. Shepherd is a college professor, while Mrs. Shepherd is a public school teacher.</p>

  <p class="indent">A June 7th wedding is planned at Bethel Baptist Church. A reception will follow in the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">The couple plans to honeymoon at Myrtle Beach and live in Listre at 209 Catawba Drive.</p>

  <h3 class="h3a" id="heading_id_2"><a id="page_4"></a>I</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We get married in two days: Charles and me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s parents are staying at the Ramada—wouldn’t stay with any of us—and today me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie ate lunch with Charles’s mother, Mrs. Shepherd. And found out that she’s, of all things, a vegetarian.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at the K and W. Mrs. Shepherd wanted to eat at some place we could sit down and order—like a restaurant—but Aunt Naomi strongly suggested the K and W. She said the K and W would be more reasonable and the line wouldn’t be long on a Thursday. So we ate at the K and W.</p>

  <p class="indent">I got meatloaf, Mama got meatloaf (they have unusually good meatloaf—not bready at all), Aunt Naomi got turkey, Aunt Flossie got roast beef, and Mrs. Shepherd, Mrs. Shepherd didn’t get any meat at all. She got the vegetable plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got seated Mama says, “I order the vegetable plate every once in a while myself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, did you get the vegetable plate?” says Aunt Naomi to Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I’ve stopped eating meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all looked at her.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got involved in a group in Atlanta which was putting together programs on simple living and after a few programs I became convinced that being a vegetarian—me, that is—made sense.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Somehow I thought people were <em>born</em> as vegetarians. I never thought about somebody just <em>changing over</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_5"></a>“What kind of group was that?” asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Several Episcopal women. I’m originally Methodist, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Naomi!” says this woman walking by holding her tray. “Good gracious, is this all your family?” Her husband went ahead and sat down about three tables over—picked a chair with arms.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It sure is,” says Aunt Naomi. “Let me introduce you. Opal Register, this is my sister-in-law, Doris Bell.” (That’s Mama.) “You know Doris, don’t you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, yes. I think we met in here one time. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is her daughter, Raney, who’s getting married Saturday.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mercy me,” says Mrs. Register. She had on big glasses with a chain, little brown curls on the top of her head, and too much lipstick. “You’re at the start of a wonderful journey, honey,” she says. “It was thirty-seven years for me and Carl the twenty-first of last month. I hope your journey is as happy and fulfilling as ours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Mrs. Millie Shepherd, the groom’s—groom-to-be’s—mother. She’s up from Atlanta, Georgia.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” says Mrs. Register.</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Flossie Purvis, Doris’s sister. And ya’ll, this is Opal and Carl Register,” said Aunt Naomi, pointing toward Mr. Register who had started eating over at his table. He smiled, with food in his mouth. You couldn’t see any though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” said Mrs. Register again. “You don’t know C. C. Lawrence, do you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think I do,” said Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“C. C. works at one of the big banks in Atlanta. He got a <a id="page_6"></a>law degree and a business degree—one right after the other. His mama and daddy didn’t think he’d ever finish—and them working at Liggett and Myers. He went—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Opal,” Mr. Register calls out. “Sit down and eat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, nice to have met you,” said Mrs. Register. “Good luck on that wonderful journey, honey,” she says to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Mrs. Register was out of hearing distance, Mama says, “Mr. Register just had a prostrate operation and I don’t think he’s recovered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Prostate,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is it?” says Mama. “Prostate? Oh. You know, I’ve always liked him better than her. She always makes so much out of every little thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The conversation went from the Registers to prostrate operations back around to eating meat.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” says Aunt Naomi, “once in a while I’ve gone without meat, but I got so weak I thought I’d pass out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, that happens a bit at first,” Mrs. Shepherd says. “But after a few days that usually goes away. It’s a matter of what you get used to, I think. The body adjusts.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d be afraid I couldn’t get enough proteins,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “There are many protein substitutes for meat. Beans—soybeans, for example—are excellent.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“My next door neighbor, Lillie Cox, brought me some hamburger with soybean in it,” said Aunt Naomi, “when I had the flu last winter, and it tasted like cardboard. She’s always trying out the latest thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I couldn’t do without my meat,” says Mama. She was fishing through her tossed salad for cucumber—and putting it on <a id="page_7"></a>her plate. “I’d be absolutely lost without sausage for breakfast. Cole’s sausage. The mild, not the hot. Do they have Cole’s in Atlanta?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so. I really don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you get the patties or the links?” Aunt Naomi asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“The patties—Thurman don’t like the links; they roll off his plate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed. Even Mrs. Shepherd, so Mama stretched it out. “Every time we go to Kiwanis for the pancake supper he’ll lose one or two links. Because of the way he eats his pancakes—pushes them all around in the syrup. Last time one rolled up under the edge of Sam Lockamy’s plate, and for a minute there we couldn’t find it. Then Sam swore it was his.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I guess you have less cholesterol if you don’t eat meat,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There are health advantages,” said Mrs. Shepherd. “And also our women’s group has been concentrating on how eating less meat can help curtail hunger in the third world.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“On another <em>planet</em>?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no. Developing nations,” says Mrs. Shepherd. She finished chewing and swallowed. “Developing nations.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I don’t understand,” says Aunt Naomi, “is that if they don’t eat their own cows, like in India, then why should we send them ours? They wouldn’t eat ours, would they? Or maybe they <em>would</em> eat American meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We wouldn’t send meat to India, of course; we’d send grain and other staple goods. The fewer cows we eat the less grain we’ll need to feed cows, so there will be a greater grain surplus.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_8"></a>Aunt Naomi blew her nose on this Kleenex she had been fumbling with. She had a cold. She can get more nose blows on one Kleenex than anybody I ever saw. She always ends up with this tiny corner which she slowly spreads out, then blows her nose into.</p>

  <p class="indent">We’d finished eating so I said, “Aunt Naomi, you get more nose blows out of one Kleenex than anybody I’ve ever seen in my life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I probably won’t be able to sing Sunday,” she said. She sings in the church choir. “This cold just drags on and on and on.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ain’t it nice the way Raney and Charles play music together,” says Mama to Mrs. Shepherd. I was relieved to get off the meat subject.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, it is,” says Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think it’s wonderful,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They sound real good together,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Music is what brought me and Charles together. He plays banjo and collects old songs from the mountains. When I sang for the faculty at the college Christmas dinner he was there—he’s the assistant librarian—and he came up afterward and complimented my singing. He was real nice about it. And has been ever since. Charles is the kind of person who is real natural around people—and is smart as he can be.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I met him again when I went to the library to check out a record. They have a good collection, thanks to Charles. One thing led to another and the first thing you know we’re playing music together. We’ve had three or four performances. Kiwanis and such. Charles calls them gigs.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles sent me a tape,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You two <a id="page_9"></a>sound really good together. You have a beautiful voice, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I thanked her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is learning to sing too. We harmonize on two or three songs. He’s improving gradually. He plays good banjo. He don’t <em>look</em> like a banjo picker, but he sounds good.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know what I’m going to do without Raney singing around the house, and helping out with Norris and Mary Faye,” says Mama, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mama, I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s a big gap between me and my little brother, Norris, and sister, Mary Faye. Norris is eight and Mary Faye is eleven. Mary Faye picks on Norris all the time, but sometimes he deserves it.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How many children do you have, Mrs. Shepherd?” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“One,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Please call me Millie,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “All of you,” she says, and smiles. “You too, Raney, if you’re comfortable with that. I have only one,” she says. “Charles is the only one.”</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_3">II</h3>

  <p class="noindent">You would think a man could get married without getting drunk, especially after I explained that nobody in my family drunk alcohol except Uncle Nate, who was in the Navy in World War II, but got burned in combat on over fifty percent <a id="page_10"></a>of his body, and caught pneumonia and had to be discharged from the Pacific. He had to stay in the hospital for three and a half months. Now he has asthma spells.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate comes to our house in a taxi at any hour of the day or night, drunk, cussing his former wife, who’s dead—Joanne. And when I say drunk, I mean so drunk he can’t get up the front steps without me and Mama and sometimes the taxi driver helping him. And smell?—Uncle Nate I’m talking about—whew. A sweat-whisky smell that lingers in the house as solid as flower smells at a funeral—lingers long after Mama’s undressed him, got him in the tub, and piled his clothes on the back porch. And the thing is, he don’t ever get asthma when he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye and Norris have to stand there in the middle of all that, being influenced in no telling what ways.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Uncle Nate’s sober he’s my favorite uncle. I love his stories about when he was growing up with Mama and Aunt Flossie and Uncle Norris (who lives in Charlotte) and their Uncle Pugg. And he always gives me presents and says I’m his favorite niece.</p>

  <p class="indent">He’s always lived with us and worked at Daddy’s store part time. His lung troubles make him disabled, so he gets a check every month from the government. They think he inhaled so much smoke he’ll never recover. The scars are mostly on his body under his clothes so you can’t ever see them except on his left wrist and under his left ear. He never talks about it except to Uncle Newton, who was in the war, too. Sometimes his asthma gets so bad he has to sit perfectly still for three or four hours. So he can’t get a job anywhere, of course—except helping Daddy out at the store. Daddy says he makes a big difference and is very dependable—unless he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_11"></a>I don’t know what Mama will do about getting him out of the taxi and up the steps since I’ll be living here in Listre. Mary Faye and Norris will have to help. But Mama hates for them to be exposed to such.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles <em>knew</em> all about Uncle Nate and how I—how my whole family—feels about drinking.</p>

  <p class="indent">So at the rehearsal Friday night everything was going fine except Mama caught Norris hiding in the baptism place and made him sit on the front row. She’d already caught him once. I told him the water would flow in there and drown him if he didn’t watch out. Mary Faye was one of my attendants and being as smart as she could be.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’m standing in the back of the church with Daddy and Flora, my cousin, who directed the wedding, and I notice that Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, from Maryland, who I had never met until that night, keeps going outside. And Charles keeps following him. Phil, Jim, Dale, and Crafton—my cousins—were of course staying in their places like they were supposed to. Flora gives me a little push and I start down the aisle with Daddy. Charles is standing with this red-faced grin. When Preacher Gordon says you may kiss the bride, I turned to Charles and there were these little red blood vessels in his left eye that looked like red thread and all of a sudden I caught a whiff of you-know-what. It hit me. It all suddenly fell together. I thought they had been going outside to <em>talk</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The thing you won’t believe is: Charles’s daddy looked lit too.</p>

  <p class="indent">I did not kiss Charles. I kept my lips clamped. I grabbed him by the arm and led him right up the aisle and out the front door. Madora Bryant, my maid of honor, and some of the other girls were clapping as hard as they could. They couldn’t <a id="page_12"></a>tell what was really happening. When I got him out on the front porch—right beside the bell rope—I said: (now I was really tore up) “Charles, I have told you for months about the condition Uncle Nate has put our family in with alcohol, and you promised me you would not have a bachelor party and get drunk and here you are, drunk, under the nose of Preacher Gordon, Mama, Daddy, Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and my bridesmaids and Mary Faye and Norris and I will never forget this as long as I live.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney,” he says, “first of all, I am not having a bachelor party, and second of all, I am not drunk. I am not doing anybody any harm. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not doing any harm? Charles, I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, Buddy drove all the way down here from Baltimore, Maryland, and he has one little pint of something in his car, and we were in the <em>war</em> together and if you will just relax. And he’s the <em>only</em> one of my close friends in the wedding. All these damn cousins of yours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, please do not start cussing right here on church property. And if you are mad about my cousins being in the wedding I would have appreciated you saying something about that before now—like while I was spending all my time getting this whole thing planned.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s daddy, Dr. Shepherd, walks up. I could not believe what was happening, yet I dared not make a scene in front of him. I was thinking that if Mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie found out about all this drinking I would die.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, honey,” Dr. Shepherd says, “you look adorable.” He’s a big man and wears those glasses without any rims—shaped <a id="page_13"></a>like stop signs. He’s a math professor, of all things. A doctor. And Mrs. Shepherd is a school teacher. They use these long words I know Mama and Daddy don’t know. And they should know Mama and Daddy don’t know them. But they’ll go on back down to Atlanta after the wedding and we won’t see them except maybe a few times a year. Charles says they belong to a country club and all that. What gets me is that Charles said he explained to them about us being Christians and not drinking which I didn’t even know we <em>had</em> to explain until Madora told me that Charles’s parents would probably be used to drinking spiked punch at weddings and what were we going to do?</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t thought about it. I’ve never been to a wedding where they drink liquor in the punch. I mean there’s usually a preacher at a wedding and it’s usually at a church. But Madora explained how rich people—or at least Episcopalians and Catholics and sometimes Methodists—will get married in church and then ride over to a country club or someplace where they all drink up a storm.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dr. Shepherd stands there kind of flushed and glassy-eyed and tells me how proud he is—and he laughs at everything he says, funny or not—and I’ll be durn if he didn’t reach up right then and there and pull the church bell rope and ring the bell. I could just see old Mrs. Bledsoe, down the road, figure it was not Friday night at all, but Wednesday night—prayer meeting night—instead, and get all upset and maybe grab <em>Mr</em>. Bledsoe, who can’t hear, and cart him off to a prayer meeting which don’t exist. Not to mention all the other people in hearing distance.</p>

  <p class="indent">The rehearsal dinner was in the education building around <a id="page_14"></a>behind the church. I walked down the church steps between Charles and his daddy—their arms locked through mine—not able to say a word, and hot behind my ears with embarrassment at the prospect of a scandal.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the education building there was Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—standing at the door, smiling.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Smooth as could be,” she said, and kissed Dr. Shepherd on the lips—right there in the door to the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">Inside, there were two long tables and a head table. Aunt Naomi was in charge. She had got Betty Winnberry to cater. Steaks. T-bone steaks. French fries. The works. I had hoped all along it wouldn’t be tacky—like paper tablecloths, which Aunt Naomi was talking about along at first. I’m certainly not going to be cow-tied to any fancy ways of the Shepherds, but I did want things to be proper for everybody concerned.</p>

  <p class="indent">On the tables were about twelve or thirteen red-checkered, overlapped tablecloths that Aunt Flossie had borrowed from Penny’s Grill (and had to wash and dry later that night in order to get them back to the grill in time for Penny to serve breakfast. They open at six <small>A.M</small>.). And over in the corner Mack Lumley was sitting on a bale of hay playing his guitar. He didn’t charge but ten dollars, and furnished the hay, too. Somebody suggested me and Charles sing, but I think singing at your own wedding wouldn’t be right.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie had put together the prettiest flower arrangement—right in the middle of the head table: roses, daisies, and Queen Anne’s lace, and pittosporum and nandina for greenery.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before supper, Charles and Buddy went out for you-know-what, I guess. I had to keep smiling and be as nice as I could to everybody. The supper <em>was</em> meaningful, but while I <a id="page_15"></a>was cutting a piece of T-bone steak I bent over to Charles and whispered: “Charles, I will never forget this.” But Charles just turned to Daddy and started talking about the Braves. They always talk about the Braves. As soon as they see one another they start talking about the Braves. I wanted to say, “Daddy, don’t you see what Charles is doing? How can you sit there and talk about the Braves while Charles is doing what he’s doing?” But I didn’t say anything. Lord knows, there was disturbance enough.</p>

  <p class="indent">I had spent all that time working out the arrangements and Charles wrote all the invitations by hand—he has this beautiful handwriting—and we had talked all about his new library job and our house and our future and how everything was going to work out, and he had been so good about running little errands. Then this.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is very intelligent, and good looking in his own way—his head is slightly large, but I think it just seems that way because his shoulders are narrow—and, oh, we had one or two little fusses getting ready for the wedding, but no more than you’d shake a stick at. And we’ve been playing music at different gatherings right along through all this—getting better and better and having lots of fun. Charles learns real fast and we like the same music mostly.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I end up sitting at my own wedding rehearsal dinner fussing at Charles for doing the one thing I was hoping against hope wouldn’t happen ever since Madora explained about how some people get drunk at weddings. We had talked about drinking several times, and I had this feeling of not being able to get a clear picture of how Charles felt. He talks a lot about “psychology.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_16"></a>The actual wedding itself went off without a hitch. It was the most wonderful day of my life. Charles was perfect. Dr. and Mrs. Shepherd were perfect. Mary Faye and Norris were perfect. Mama and Daddy were perfect. Mama wore a long dress—pink—and she was real pretty, except her hair-do was a little tight. Daddy looked the way he always does at church: out of place in a suit, and his head white where his hat goes, and his face red. (He <em>looks</em> like he has high blood pressure, but it’s normal and always has been.) Right before we walked down the aisle, he said, “Honey, I’m real happy for you. Charles is a good man.” His chin was quivering, and two tears rolled down his cheeks. He was holding my hand, which was something I don’t remember him doing since I was a little girl. Daddy don’t show much emotion.</p>

  <p class="indent">A bunch of people said it was the nicest wedding they had ever been to. I was just flushed throughout the whole thing. It went exactly according to plans. Charles was handsomer than I’ve ever seen him. The shoulders in his tux were padded.</p>

  <p class="indent">The wedding was fairly short and we all went straight to the reception in the education building <em>without</em> getting our pictures made, so people wouldn’t have to wait. Mama was real worried about us not getting a photographer, but Mack Lumley did it for only ten dollars over cost.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama and Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—cried several times each, and so did Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie, and two or three times Dr. Shepherd gave Millie a long hug right in front of everybody. Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, spent some time talking to Mary Faye and Norris. I thought that <a id="page_17"></a>was nice. Buddy and my cousins fixed up our car with tin cans and shaving cream; we changed clothes; Sylvia Curtis caught the bouquet; we ran to Charles’s Dodge Dart under all that rice, and headed for Myrtle Beach.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Now. The honeymoon. I do not have the nerve to explain everything that happened on the first night there in the Holiday Inn. We had talked about it some before—or Charles had talked about it. And we had, you know, necked the same as any engaged couple. And I had told Charles way back, of course, that I wanted my marriage consumed <em>after</em> I was married. Not before. Because if it was consumed before, then I would have to carry the thought of that throughout my entire life and it’s hard to undo that which has already been done.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ve read books. I’ve had talks with my mama. And I’ve read the Bible. You’d think that would prepare a woman for her wedding night.</p>

  <p class="indent">It didn’t. First of all, Charles had rib-eye steaks rolled into our room on this metal table with drawers which could keep the steaks warm. And there in the middle of the table was a dozen red roses. All that was nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">But in this silver bucket with ice and a white towel was, of all things, a bottle of champagne.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a predicament for me, because on the one hand it was all so wonderful, and Charles had planned it all out like the man is supposed to do—I mean, my dream was being fulfilled. Charles was getting things right. But on the other hand, there in the middle of the table rearing its ugly head, as they say, was a bottle of champagne. I’ve seen enough bottles of champagne after the World Series on TV (when the ballplayers <a id="page_18"></a>make fools out of themselves and cuss over the airways) to know one when I see it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, I’m not a prude. Getting drunk at your wedding is one thing, but I can understand a little private celebrating, maybe—as a symbol of something wonderful happening. Something symbolic. So I didn’t say anything about the champagne. It’s very hard to find fault on your wedding night with a dozen red roses staring you full in the face—even though a still, small voice was warning me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles poured me a glass and I said to myself, Why not just a sip, like medicine, and I tried a sip, but that’s all. It tasted like Alka Selzer with honey in it. I politely refused anymore. And didn’t think Charles would drink over a glass. (I figured you couldn’t buy it except in the bottle, and that’s why he got it that way.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and Charles pushed the table, with the dishes, out into the hall. I said excuse me, went into the bathroom, put on my negligee and got ready, you know, and came back out to find Charles standing there in his Fruit of the Loom, drinking champagne out of a plastic cup. It was a terrible scene to remember.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was planning to do what Mama explained to me: get in the bed and let Charles carry out his duties. And I was thinking that’s what Charles would be planning to do. But. He had a different idea which I do not have the nerve to explain. It turned into an argument which finally turned into a sort of Chinese wrestling match with my nerves tore all to pieces. Charles kept saying nothing was in the Bible about what married people could or couldn’t do. I finally cried, and Charles said he was sorry. It was awful. I cried again the next morning <a id="page_19"></a>and Charles said he was sorry again. This may be something I can forgive but I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. Not for a long time.</p>

  <p class="indentt">On the second day, we didn’t say much at breakfast, or after. We went to the beach for a while, ate hot dogs for lunch, and then came back to change clothes. Charles asked the manager about us playing music in the motel lounge that night. (We took our instruments in case we got a chance to play.) When he found out we’d do it free the manager said fine.</p>

  <p class="indent">So on the second night, rather than going to this country music show like we’d planned, we met the manager in the lounge. Charles wore bluejeans and I wore my blue-checkered blouse, jeans, and cowgirl hat. The manager came in and lit all the candles in these orange candle vases. There were only three or four people there. The only thing I didn’t like about it was that they served beer. But the bartender went out of his way to be nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">We decided to play half an hour and see if we could draw an audience. We started with several banjo pieces and then I sang “This World Is Not My Home” and “I’ll Fly Away.” I like the way those two songs fit together. It gives me something to talk about when I introduce them. Charles is good about letting me talk about the songs. I have played with people who hog it all.</p>

  <p class="indent">A crowd gathered, and sure enough they liked the music and clapped and somebody requested “Your Cheating Heart” and Charles tried it. He’s been learning it for the last month or so. He forgets words pretty easy. Nobody noticed but he sang the same verse twice. He looked at me and I managed to wink in spite of the fact I was still in turmoil from the night before.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_20"></a>We had told the manager we couldn’t play past nine-thirty that night. We told him it was our honeymoon and all. The truth is we only know about two hours worth of songs. But I did want to get back up to our bed and start our marriage in the proper manner. It’s something I had been thinking about since I was sixteen or seventeen years old and the night before had <em>not</em> worked out at all like I thought it would. It had made me a bundle of nerves and I had discovered something in Charles I didn’t know existed—something corroded, and him drinking a whole bottle of champagne brought it out. He still hasn’t taken serious my principles about drinking. That first night was a awful experience which I can’t bring myself to talk about, but I must say things went better on the second night. I was able to explain to Charles how I was supposed to come out of the bathroom in my negligee, go get in the bed, get under the cover, and then he was supposed to go to the bathroom, come out, come get under the cover, and accomplish what was supposed to be accomplished. It all worked the way it was supposed to, and was wonderful, I must say.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when I came out of the shower, before we went down for breakfast, Charles was talking on the phone to his other main friend besides Buddy Shellar: Johnny Dobbs, who lives in New Orleans. They were all three in the army together.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has a great voice,” he was saying. “Raney, get your guitar. Wait a minute, Johnny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the phone receiver on the bed, got out his banjo, hit a couple of licks and said to me, “Do ‘This World Is Not My Home.’ Wait a minute, let me introduce you to Johnny.” So he did, over the phone, and Johnny sounded real nice.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_21"></a>“Charles,” I whispered, “do you know how much this is costing?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll pay for it,” he said. “I’ve been telling Johnny about your voice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I sang “This World Is Not My Home,” and Charles asked Johnny if he could hear it clear over the phone and he said he could and then Charles wanted me to do my chicken song—the one I wrote. Charles thinks it’s the funniest thing he’s ever heard. It <em>is</em> a good song, and since Charles was paying. . . . It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">The town council chairman came by late last May.<br />
  Said we’re sorry, Mr. Oakley, ‘bout what we must say.<br />
  But the airport’s expanding, we mean you no harm.<br />
  The new north-south runway’s gonna point toward your farm.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to the governor, and told him my desire:<br />
  Could you please make them airplanes fly a little bit higher.<br />
  “My chickens ain’t laying,” I tried to explain.<br />
  But my words were going north on a south-bound train.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to a doctor; he gave me a pill.<br />
  I talked to a lawyer; you should have seen the bill.<br />
  I talked to a librarian; he grinned and winked his eye.<br />
  And he gave me a little book called, “Chickens Can Fly.”<br />
  (Charles says the book is by B. F. Skinner) <a id="page_22"></a><br />
  I read the little book. Taught my chickens to fly,<br />
  To aim at the intakes as the jet planes flew by.<br />
  My chickens are gone now, but the answer is found:<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I finished, Charles said Johnny really liked it. They talked another fifteen minutes before Charles finally hung up.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hugged Charles and said something about the night before. Charles said we ought to <em>talk</em> about our “sexual relationship” sometime, and I said okay, but Lord knows I won’t be able to <em>talk</em> about it. It’s something you’re supposed to do in a natural manner, not <em>talk</em> about. That’s why you don’t find it talked about in church and school—or at least you shouldn’t: it’s not supposed to be talked about. It’s something which is supposed to stay in the privacy of your own bedroom.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when we left, the manager was at the desk and he gave us an envelope with a twenty dollar bill in it. Said it was some of the best entertainment they ever had and would we please come back and that he once worked in a hotel in Reno, and he’d heard some better, but he’d sure heard a lot worse.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_4">III</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles is in the bedroom covered up in the bed. There are eleven broken monogrammed glasses here on the kitchen floor and every window in the house is locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">This all started last Saturday afternoon when I called Mama <a id="page_23"></a>as usual. I try to call her every day. We’ve always been close and I say those television commercials about calling somebody—reaching out and touching—make sense. Belinda Osborne drives to see her mother every day—forty miles round trip—which I’m not about to do. That is too close. Three times a week is often enough. (Belinda’s mother <em>is</em> sick a lot though.)</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d like to be living closer to home and I know Mama and Daddy were disappointed that we didn’t move into the Wilkins house, and I would have, but Charles insisted we live here in Listre because it’s close to the college. I finally said okay when he promised he would still go to church with me at home in Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">But: he’s been going to church less and less, and we’ve only been married six weeks. He’ll take me to Sunday School and drop me off, still wearing his pajamas under his clothes. He’s done it twice. Deacon Brooks said since Charles was Methodist he must think he’s too good for Free Will Baptists. He pretended he was kidding, but I could tell he was serious.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, as I said, I called Mama last Saturday afternoon and she told me that she had come by with Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to see us that morning but we were gone. They came on in to use the phone to call Annie Godwin so it wouldn’t be long distance. (We don’t lock the door normally.) Aunt Naomi went to the kitchen to get a glass of water and accidentally broke one of the monogrammed glasses Cousin Emma gave us for a wedding present. Mama told me all this on the phone. I didn’t think twice about it. I figured I’d just pick up another glass next time I’m at the mall. I know where they come from.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday, the very next day, we’re eating dinner at home in Bethel with Mama, Daddy, Uncle Nate, Mary Faye, and <a id="page_24"></a>Norris. Mama fixes at least two meats, five or six vegetables, two kinds of cornbread, biscuits, chow-chow, pickles, pies, and sometimes a cake.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Where did you tell me you all were yesterday morning?” She was getting the cornbread off the stove. She’s always the last one to sit down.</p>

  <p class="indent">“At the mall,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I like where you moved the couch to,” says Mama. “It looks better. We waited for you all fifteen or twenty minutes. I’m sorry Naomi broke that glass,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t mentioned it to Charles. No reason to. He says—and he was serious: “Why were you all in our house?”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was mortified in my heart.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We were just using the phone,” says Mama. There was a long silence. It built up and then kept going.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pass the turnips, Mary Faye,” I said. “I couldn’t figure out what was wrong in there so I moved things around until it looked better and sure enough it was the couch. The couch was wrong.”</p>

  <p class="indent">My mama ain’t nosy. No more than any decent woman would be about her own flesh and blood.</p>

  <p class="indent">Listen. I don’t have nothing to hide. And Lord knows, Charles don’t, except maybe some of his opinions.</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and set in the den and talked for a while and the subject didn’t come up again. Charles always gets fidgety within thirty minutes of when we finish eating. He has no appreciation for just setting and talking. And I don’t mean going on and on about politics or something like that; I mean just talking—talking about normal things. So since he gets fidgity, we usually cut our Sunday visits short. “Well, I guess <a id="page_25"></a>we better get on back,” I say, while Charles sits over there looking like he’s bored to death. I know Mama notices.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we’re out of the driveway, Charles says, “Raney, I think you ought to tell your mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to stay out of our house unless somebody’s home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">To stay out of <em>my</em> own house.</p>

  <p class="indent">He couldn’t even wait until we were out of the driveway. And all the car windows rolled down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got on down the road, out of hearing distance, I said, “Charles, you don’t love Mama and never did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He pulls the car over beside the PEACHES FOR SALE sign across from Parker’s pond. And stares at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">The whole thing has tore me up. “Charles,” I said, and I had to start crying, “you don’t have to hide your life from Mama and them. Or me. You didn’t have to get all upset today. You could understand if you wanted to. You didn’t have to get upset when I opened that oil bill addressed to you, either. There ain’t going to be nothing in there but a oil bill, for heaven’s sake. Why anyone would want to hide a oil bill I cannot understand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He starts hollering at me. The first time in my life anybody has set in a car and hollered at me. His blood vessels stood all out. I couldn’t control myself. It was awful. If you’ve ever been hollered at, while you are crying, by the one person you love best in the world, you know what I mean. This was a part of Charles I had never seen.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Here’s what happened yesterday. We went to Penny’s Grill for lunch. (I refuse to cook three meals a day, I don’t care what <a id="page_26"></a>Mama says.) When we got back, there was Mama’s green Ford—parked in front of the house.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is that your mother’s Ford?” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“There.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, in front of the house? I think it might be.” That long silence from the dinner table last Sunday came back, and I hoped Mama was out in the back yard picking up apples because I knew I couldn’t stand another scene within a week. I couldn’t think of a thing to say. I didn’t want to fuss at Charles right before he talked to Mama, and I certainly wouldn’t dare fuss at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles got out of the car not saying a word and started for the house. I was about three feet behind, trying to keep up. The front door was wide open.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stopped just inside the door. I looked over his shoulder and there was Mama coming through the arched hall doorway. She stopped. She was dressed for shopping.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, where in the world have you all been?” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We been to eat,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Eating out?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “please do not come in this house if we’re not here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe what I was hearing. It was like a dream.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Charles son, I was only leaving my own daughter a note saying to meet me at the mall at two o’clock, at the fountain. The front door was open. You should lock the front door if you want to keep people out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell, a person is entitled to his own privacy. I’m entitled to my own privacy. This is my—our—house. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_27"></a>“This is my own daughter’s house, son. My mama was never refused entrance to my house. She was always welcome. Every day of her life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was afraid Mama was going to cry. I opened my mouth but nothing came out.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “it seems as though you think everything <em>you</em> think is right, is right for everybody.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, “that’s what everybody thinks—in a sense. That’s even what <em>you</em> think.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles turned half around so he could see me. He looked at me, then at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Son, I’ll be happy to buy you a new monogrammed glass if that’s what you’re so upset about. Naomi didn’t mean to break that glass. I’m going over to the mall right now. And I know where they come from.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walks past me and out the front door, stops, turns around and says, “I didn’t want any of those damned monogrammed glasses in the first place and I did the best I could to make that clear, plus that’s not the subject.” (I gave him a monogrammed blue blazer for his birthday and he cut the initials off before he’d wear it.)</p>

  <p class="indent">So now Mama’s at the mall with her feelings hurt. Charles is in the bedroom with a blanket over his head, and I’m sitting here amongst eleven broken monogrammed glasses, and every door and window locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">Evidently Charles throws things when he’s very mad. I never expected violence from Charles Shepherd. Thank God we don’t have a child to see such behavior.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We didn’t speak all afternoon, or at supper—I fixed hot <a id="page_28"></a>dogs, split, with cheese and bacon stuck in—or after. I went to bed at about ten o’clock, while Charles sat in the living room reading some book. I felt terrible about Mama’s feelings being hurt like I know they were; I hadn’t known whether to call her or not; I couldn’t with Charles there; and I couldn’t imagine what had got into Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I went to bed and was trying to go to sleep, with my mind full of upsetting images, when I heard this <em>voice</em> coming out of the heating vent at the head of the bed on my side. I sat up. I thought at first it was somebody under the house. I let my head lean down over the side of the bed close to the vent. It was <em>Charles</em>—talking on the phone in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now if we’d been on speaking terms I would have told him I could hear him, but we weren’t speaking. And besides, I won’t about to get out of bed for no reason at eleven <small>P.M</small>. And so I didn’t have no choice but to listen, whether I wanted to or not.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was talking to his Johnny friend. I could hear just about everything he said. If we had been speaking, I wouldn’t have hesitated to tell him how the sound came through the vent. But we weren’t speaking, as I said. He was talking about—you guessed it: Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“. . . She just broke in, in essence . . . just walked through the door when nobody was home. . . . It’s weird, Johnny. . . . What am I supposed to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Now why didn’t he ask <em>me</em> what he was supposed to do? He didn’t marry Johnny Dobbs.</p>

  <p class="indent">I agree that some things need to be left private—but the <em>living room</em>? The living room is where everybody comes into the house. That’s one of the last places to keep private on earth. <a id="page_29"></a>I just can’t connect up Charles’s idea about privacy to the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">He went on about Mama for awhile and then said something about everybody saying “nigger,” and that when Johnny came to see us for him not to drive in after dark—which I didn’t understand until it dawned on me that maybe Johnny Dobbs was a, you know, black. He didn’t sound like it when I talked to him over the phone at Myrtle Beach. Charles and his other army buddy, Buddy Shellar, at the wedding kept talking about “Johnny this” and “Johnny that” but I never thought about Johnny being anything other than a regular white person. They were all three in the army, which of course everybody knows has been segregated since 1948, according to Charles, so I guess it’s possible they roomed together, or at least ate together.</p>

  <p class="indent">He didn’t sound, you know, black.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ll ask Charles about it when we’re on speaking terms and I tell him about how the sound comes through the vent; but if he <em>is</em> a nigger, he can’t stay here. It won’t work. The Ramada, maybe, but not here.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_5">IV</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Flossie called last Wednesday—said to come by and pick up some fresh peanut butter cookies. She lives in a little four-room house between Listre and Bethel—and cooks apple pies for Penny’s Grill on the side. Her kitchen is always smelling <a id="page_30"></a>like cinnamon and sugar-cooked apples. Charles can’t get over how good her apple pies are. He asked her for the recipe and he don’t even cook.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m cooking an extra apple pie,” she says. “I’ll be done in a few minutes and you can have a hot piece with some ice cream.” Aunt Flossie has a way about her that makes me feel free to talk. She seems like she’s used to talking, even though she lives by herself. When something hard to talk about comes up, there’s a little sparkle in her eyes—and she loves to tell stories almost as much as Uncle Nate. I went right over there.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” she said, “when Frank and me got married it was like starting to school—the things I had to learn. I guess I’d never had an argument with a soul in the world—except a few squabbles with Mama.” She was making up cookie dough. (Now, how could she tell that Charles and me had had a argument?) “I don’t know about Frank,” she said, “but I don’t guess he’d ever argued with a woman, certainly not his mama. We had to <em>learn</em> to argue. I’d get so mad at him. We’d stay mad for days, not speaking. I finally figured out that that kind of business scared me. Scared me bad. And that’s why I was so mad. Like with old man Wiley’s bull, Red—us being scared and mad getting run together at the same time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Old man Wiley’s bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I shot old man Wiley’s bull one time. Named Red. I couldn’t have been over twelve. He was always getting loose and chasing us up a tree. Mama told Mr. Wiley to keep his bull locked up, else she’d shoot him. Course I heard all this talk—so one day all of us were down in the woods when Red got out and started pawing dirt, throwing his head around, and snorting, and I ran to the house and snuck the shotgun out the back door. Everybody was up a tree when I got back. I <a id="page_31"></a>shot him. He turned and run and I shot him again. We hated that bull. And the reason we hated him was we were so scared of him. Why, the bull won’t doing nothing unnatural. And the whole point is, we were mad <em>because</em> we were scared and I never figured <em>that</em> out until me and Frank figured out about our arguments.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whose bull was it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was old man Wiley’s bull. One day I told Frank that our arguments scared me and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to the bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, he won’t hurt none. The gun had birdshot. Ah, the pies are ready.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s no apple pie in the world better than Aunt Flossie’s, especially with cold vanilla ice cream melting down over it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Frank died when I was about seven. He was a car salesman. I don’t remember much about him. But I’ve seen lots of pictures of him and Aunt Flossie, Mama and Daddy, and Aunt Naomi and Uncle Forrest, who died sometime before I was six. They all went to the beach, the fair, and the mountains together and took bunches of pictures.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How old was I when Uncle Forrest died?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Four. Three or four, I guess. Frank used to call him ‘Woody.’ What a card he was. Always kidding. People always liked that about him though. I never saw him embarrassed but once. Did I ever tell you about the time we all went to the beach before him and Naomi were married?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, me and Doris were swimming in the ocean when here comes Naomi and Forrest from the bath house. They don’t get no farther than about a foot deep—where the waves are breaking for the third or fourth time—and Naomi is holding <a id="page_32"></a>onto Forrest’s hand and jumping every little wave and screaming like nobody’s business when Doris—who’s standing behind me—says, ‘Lord have mercy.’ I look and there’s Naomi just jumping up and down over those little waves, laughing, and one of her breasts—just as white as flour—was out of her bathing suit and Forrest—they weren’t married yet—was looking off down the beach, like he hadn’t noticed. Doris says, ‘Lord have mercy, Flossie, one of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’ Well, I thought I would die. I started walking toward them, motioning to Naomi, and she just kept jumping up and down. Forrest was pretending he hadn’t noticed—looking off down the beach. Naomi saw and turned away from Forrest and bent over double and got everything tucked back in. Forrest was standing there embarrassed to death and I said, ‘Tell us a joke, Woody.’ But the funniest thing was your mama saying, ‘One of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’”</p>

  <p class="indent">A pan of cookies was done—and Aunt Flossie wrapped me up a bunch in wax paper and put them in a cookie can.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Anyway, honey, try not to worry too much about the rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What rough spots?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“With Charles—if and when.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, there ain’t no rough spots.” I couldn’t get into all that about Charles. Even with Aunt Flossie. If it got worse: maybe.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean any you might have.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Well, Charles is just as sweet as he can be. We been working up some new music. We learned three new Carter family tunes last week. I’ll let you know if there get to be any rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_33"></a>“You be sure to do that,” says Aunt Flossie. “It never hurts to have somebody to listen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A week or two ago, Charles said he wished he had a Aunt Flossie in his family. His aunts are all out West, or in Connecticut.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_6">V</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Naomi called me this past Wednesday was a week ago and upset me terrible. She called to find out all about our upcoming trip to the beach: when, exactly, we were coming back, what food she needed to take, and so forth. She also said Mama was upset about the argument with Charles—they had talked about it on the phone—but that Mama wouldn’t say nothing to me about it for the world. She said Mama felt betrayed and couldn’t understand why it all had to happen to her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, it just made me sick. I don’t know why Charles had to react so. Mama would never hurt anything in the world, and Charles knows it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now Aunt Naomi, as well as Mama, has got something against Charles. The problem is that nobody has seen the good side of anybody else—in the whole family, since the wedding—except, I guess Daddy has pretty much seen the good side of Charles, and has took to Charles better than anybody else. Except me, of course—and maybe Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">So anyway, when we drove to the beach last Sunday (we left <a id="page_34"></a>right after Sunday School), Charles insisted on sitting up front with Daddy, so they could talk about surf fishing. They had these great long fishing rods, and some short ones, tied to the top of the car. I don’t know why they don’t just use the short ones, which are way less expensive, and fish off the pier like other people. They can get their line farther out in the ocean that way. Those big rods cost a fortune.</p>

  <p class="indent">I wanted Charles to sit in the back with me and Aunt Naomi so they could get to know each other’s good sides a little better, and so Mama and Daddy could sit up front where they could argue by themselves. But oh no. Charles gets up front before anybody else has a chance. Me, Mama, and Aunt Naomi sat in the back. Uncle Nate, Aunt Flossie, Mary Faye, and Norris followed us in Aunt Flossie’s Oldsmobile.</p>

  <p class="indent">The funny thing is this: Charles has not gone anywhere with Daddy driving—and Daddy don’t always chew tobacco when he drives but last Sunday he did; and what he does when he chews tobacco and drives is use a drink bottle, usually a short Coke-a-cola bottle, for a spitoon. When I saw Daddy bringing a Coke bottle to the car I figured it served Charles right for not wanting to ride in the back with Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">See, Charles has a repulsion about anything gooey and slimey. He won’t eat boiled okra and he thinks somebody spitting is just awful, whereas I don’t see nothing wrong with it as long as it’s not on somebody.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes if Daddy takes a chew while he’s driving, and a Coke bottle’s not around, he’ll open the car door at a stop sign and spit on the road—which might have been better for Charles on this trip—but when he does that, the tobacco spatters up, and the car door gets to looking like a speckled dog until Mama goes out and cleans it off with Ajax.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_35"></a>So Sunday, as soon as Daddy gets settled behind the steering wheel, he cuts off this big hunk of Brown Williamson. I buy him four plugs every Christmas and I buy Mama a bottle of Jergen’s lotion. Of course that’s not all I buy. Last Christmas I bought Daddy a pair of ceramic bird dogs and I bought Mama a off-white shawl which she took back. She takes back most things she buys or you give her. She’s always hard to buy for. She’ll <em>tell</em> you she’s hard to buy for. One Christmas, Ferbie Layton told Aunt Flossie that Mama was pretty and Aunt Flossie told me and Aunt Naomi that she was passing along the compliment to Mama as a Christmas present because for sure Mama couldn’t return that. If she does keep something you give her, she’ll alter it. One Christmas I gave her a free-hanging plaid blouse which she said she believed she’d take up even though we all told her it was the right length. So she finally said she wouldn’t take it up. Aunt Flossie said she bet she would. (I think she did, but we never knew for sure.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t got as far as Paulsen’s Gulf when Daddy pulls his Coke bottle up from between his legs and spits in a long string of brown juice. He breaks the spit off by flicking the mouth of the Coke bottle against his bottom lip. Comes clear every time.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles squirmed. I wanted to say Charles if you weren’t watching out for yourself so much, you wouldn’t have to be up there; you could be back here in the back seat getting to know Aunt Naomi a little better, and Mama could be up front with Daddy so they wouldn’t have to argue back and forth across the seat.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Mama says what she always says at the Oak Hill intersection when we go to the beach: “Thurman, you’re going to turn to the right here?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_36"></a>“Yes I am, Doris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re not going by the interstate?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just asked, Thurman. Remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, it was longer when we went this way.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That was early of a Friday morning when the traffic was thick.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, the point is you don’t have all them little towns to drive through on the interstate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just thinking of how not to take so long to get there. I declare,” says Mama to Aunt Naomi, “the ‘blacks’ stop in these little towns in the middle of the street and talk to whoever happens to be on the sidewalk and you can’t blow your horn lest one’s liable to come back for all you know and cut your throat.” (Mama has started saying “blacks” when Charles is around. And I guess I have too.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to,” Daddy says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay, I’ll drive,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a long pause during which the car didn’t slow down a bit.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll drive,” says Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well then,” says Mama, “you shouldn’t say you’ll be glad for me to drive.” There was this other long pause. “When you’re not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy just looked at Charles, shifted his tobacco from one cheek to the other and says, “You got any connector sleeves in your tackle box? I’m out.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_37"></a>Charles said he had plenty.</p>

  <p class="indentt">For the past ten years, every time we go to the beach, we eat at Hardee’s in Goldsboro. So when we got close, Daddy says, “Ya’ll want to eat at Hardee’s?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Any place is fine with me,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">And do you know what Charles has the gall to say? He says, “I’d rather eat at some place we can sit down to order, if it’s all the same.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe my ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">One reason Charles had to speak up is because he took a course at the college called Aggressiveness Training. It teaches you to say what you want to say when you want to say it. The thing is: Charles never needed any aggressiveness training. He’s never had any problem being aggressive. But he thinks it’s the modern way or something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to eat at Hardee’s so I can get a apple turnover,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy said he didn’t care, someplace to sit down and order would be fine with him, but Mama and Aunt Naomi sided with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">You see, Charles tries out his aggressiveness training when in his heart he really don’t care. He just wants to keep it in practice—keep it working, like when you break up a flower bed in winter just to keep it loose.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at Hardee’s.</p>

  <p class="indent">After lunch, me and Charles traded car seats. His idea.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now. You would think Charles could ride to the beach without disagreeing with Aunt Naomi right there in the back seat. But oh no. It was over a very simple matter.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi goes to our church but she lives out in the <a id="page_38"></a>country, close to Hillview Baptist—not a Free Will, and while we rode along she told all about them having to let their preacher go.</p>

  <p class="indent">“After it all got out they didn’t have no choice but to let him go,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it started out with him praying regular with this woman whose husband got killed in a car wreck. I didn’t know her—or her husband. She hadn’t been around long. I think they were praying every Wednesday night after prayer meeting. She up and moves to Charlotte and nobody thought anything about it until Tim Hodges, who’s the treasurer, noticed these regular phone calls on the church phone bill. One was over thirty minutes. He told Lloyd Womble, the head deacon. I guess they kept a eye on things and one Friday after the preacher said he was going to see his brother in Franklin, they checked up on him. Called his brother. His brother hadn’t seen him and won’t expecting him. Well.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Saturday, when the preacher got back, Tim and Lloyd paid him a visit. Asked him where he’d been and he said to see his brother. And of course they had him. Just plain had him.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They certainly are a trusting bunch,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes,” says Aunt Naomi, “they trust in the Lord, of course.” She was looking straight at the back of Charles’s head. “Now the funny part was that Emily, the preacher’s wife, didn’t get mad at the preacher—that I know of. She got mad at Tim and Lloyd because they wouldn’t believe it when the preacher said he was sorry. She said <em>she</em> believed he was sorry. But what else would the man say—caught red-handed. Tim and Lloyd felt obliged to bring it before the church and the church voted him out. He had to move.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_39"></a>After a minute, Charles says, “It’s possible that Jesus would have forgiven him. After all, he forgave a prostitute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">That took the cake. I’ve been going to church since I was born and I don’t remember anything about Jesus forgiving a prostitute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Besides that, a prostitute is not married like the preacher was.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi just looked out the window, then hunted through her pocketbook for some chewing gum and said, “Well, I don’t know about that.”</p>

  <p class="indentt">We stay at Mr. Albert Douglas’s cabin at the beach every summer. He rents it to us at half price and it’s only two blocks from the ocean. We found the key on the nail in the stumpy tree beside the back door and let ourselves in. Everything had been left in order. We opened all the windows to get rid of the closed-in smell. There was a nice breeze.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate took Norris and Mary Faye for a quick look at the ocean while the rest of us unpacked. I insisted me and Charles get the couch to sleep on since we’d probably be staying up later than anybody else.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had barely got settled when Uncle Nate’s asthma started acting up. It usually does at the beach. He sat down on the couch and said he’d sit there for a spell. He was breathing fast, pulling back with his shoulders on each breath, and giving a little wheezy cough every minute or so. His hair was slicked straight back with Vitalis and he was wearing a starched white shirt as usual.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris and Mary Faye came in begging Charles and me to take them to the boardwalk. I kind of wanted to go to the boardwalk myself. I like the hubbub. So Charles and me took them. We <a id="page_40"></a>all got a ice cream cone as soon as we got there, but before Norris took the first bite, his scoop fell out. Vanilla—he won’t eat nothing but vanilla. He started to pick it up.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stupid,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris,” I said, “ask the lady for another scoop. Don’t pick that up off the boardwalk.” He already had most of it up. He let it drop back. The lady saw what happened and had him another scoop ready when he reached up his cone. I got some napkins and wiped off his hand.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked along the boardwalk. I looked back to check on Norris. He was walking along, looking back over his shoulder at this little boy with a stuffed giraffe. His ice cream cone was tilting more and more.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris, don’t drop your—”</p>

  <p class="indent">That scoop fell between the planks and left just the slightest bit up top. Norris squatted down and looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">The lady made us pay this time. I guess she was worried about going out of business.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles bought me a necklace from one of those little jewelry stands. I told him it was too expensive but he bought it anyway and had “Love, Tiger” wrote on it. He does little things like that, that a lot of men never think about. I tried to get him to ring the bell with the sledge hammer, but he wouldn’t. Norris wanted to but I wouldn’t let him. He would have been disappointed. I did let him and Mary Faye ride the bumper cars three times. They got the bottoms of their feet so black Aunt Naomi made them wash them off with soap at the outside shower before she’d let them come in the cottage.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had pimento cheese and monkey meat—that’s luncheon meat—sandwiches and potato chips for supper. Then after <a id="page_41"></a>supper while Daddy was unfolding the card table for Rook, Aunt Naomi wanted to know how thick the niggers had been down at the boardwalk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not very,” I said. “They hang out mostly over at Wright’s beach.” That’s the nigger beach. “I don’t think I saw over one or two.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I saw a whole car load,” says Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’ve got as much right as anyone else to walk on the boardwalk,” says Charles. Charles has this thing about niggers. For some reason he don’t understand how they are. Or at least how they are around Listre and Bethel. Maybe his Johnny friend is different. I can only speak for the ones around Listre and Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, son,” says Aunt Naomi, “I agree they got a right. The Constitution gives them a right. So that’s settled. There’s no question about that. No argument at all about that. The problem comes with where they want to spend their time. And so long as they’ve got <em>their</em> beach, like Raney says, then I don’t understand to my life why they don’t use it—why they have to use ours. In Russia they wouldn’t have their own beach. But our constitution does provide that they can have their own beach. I agree. It’s just that they need to stay in their own place at their own beach just like the white people stay at their own place at their own beach.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody else said anything—Uncle Nate was asleep on the couch—but you could tell we all agreed except Charles. He walks through the screen door on outside.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t understand where he gets some of his attitudes,” says Aunt Naomi. “What’s trumps?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_42"></a>Monday morning, Mama and me cooked eggs, bacon, grits, and biscuits. After breakfast, Daddy, Uncle Nate, and Charles took Mary Faye and Norris fishing at the pier. Me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie cleaned up the dishes, put on our bathing suits, got towels and suntan lotion, and walked to the beach. We were all planning to meet back at the cabin for lunch.</p>

  <p class="indent">About the time we got settled on a nice even spot, along came this Marine with a woman who had a blue lightning bolt tattooed on the inside of her knee. They sat down on this white towel—too little for both of them—beside some college students. The waves were crashing, so I know they couldn’t hear us talk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare I don’t think I’ve ever seen a woman with a tattoo,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“On the inside of her knee.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, <em>where</em>? Where are they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He looks like a soldier.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a Marine from Camp Lejune,” I said. “I can tell by the way his hair’s cut.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see no tattoo on her,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute and you will,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There it is,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’ll be dog,” says Aunt Naomi. “Don’t that beat all? A blue lightning bolt. Do you reckon she drew that on there with a ball point pen?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not unless she can draw mighty good,” says Mama. <a id="page_43"></a>“Course a lightning bolt ain’t all that hard to draw. I remember from school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now can you imagine,” says Aunt Naomi, “Some woman walking into a tattoo parlor with a bunch of men standing around, hiking up her dress and saying I want a blue lightning bolt tattooed right here on the inside of my knee? Can you imagine that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I sure can’t,” says Mama. “But she looks like she’s been in plenty places like that. I mean she looks like she’s spent a good deal of her life indoors in some back room.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, she could be a you-know-what,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman was pale and skinny with black hair stringy wet from swimming. She lit a cigarette and when she pulled it out of her mouth she laughed smoke at something the Marine said and I could see some of her teeth were rotten.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young people nowadays will go to almost any length,” said Aunt Naomi. “I don’t know what it’s all coming to. Who ever heard of so much burning, beating, and stabbing, and my Lord, I can’t imagine what Papa would done to me had I come home with a blue lightning bolt tattooed on my kneecap. Why he would—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s on the inside of her knee,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why he would have skint me alive.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked Charles all of a sudden and said we’d better come to the house, that Norris had a fish hook hung in his <em>nose</em>. He said that on Mary Faye’s first cast, Norris was walking behind her and the hook caught him, as clean as day, in his left nostril—<em>with the worm still on the hook</em>. We followed him to the cottage. I couldn’t imagine.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walk in and there sits Norris in a straightback chair, crying, with Uncle Nate down on his knees trying to see in <a id="page_44"></a>Norris’s nose and Norris trying to hold his head still but not being able to on account of crying.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris rolls his eyes to look at us when we walk in. Standing there beside him is Mary Faye, holding a rod and Zebco reel with a line leading to Norris’s nose where the hook is stuck in his nostril with a live worm half in and half out. It won’t bleeding though. Daddy is standing behind Uncle Nate, watching.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I say we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute,” says Uncle Nate, “if the barb ain’t in we can pull it right out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If the barb ain’t in, it would’ve fell out, wouldn’t it?—with that great big worm on there,” says Aunt Flossie. “He must weigh half a pound.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t need that much worm to catch a fish,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I agree,” I said. In many ways Charles is very clearheaded.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, if I can just—” said Uncle Nate, reaching up toward Norris’s nose.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris lets out this short yell and puts his hand in front of his face.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stands up and looks around at everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Tears are dropping off the worm. A drop of blood appears.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s bleeding,” says Charles. “What’s wrong with taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s the worm bleeding,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you know that?” asks Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_45"></a>“Cause it’s a blood worm. They’re supposed to bleed. That’s what it’s called: a blood worm. That’s what it says where you buy them on the pier: blood worms, $2.00 a dozen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Gosh, they’ve gone up,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, suppose it <em>is</em> the worm,” says Charles. “What can you lose by taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The worm or Norris?” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Norris,</em>” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Norris goes, the worm goes,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“To start with,” says Uncle Nate to Charles, “you’re going to lose about fifty dollars. Second, you’re going to lose a chance to do something for yourself instead of some overpaid doctor doing it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walked out the door. Again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy took over. “Now, wait a minute,” he said. “Everybody sit down. No. No, not you, Mary Faye. You stand right there and hold the pole, honey.” He pulled a chair in front of Norris’s chair and sat down. “You all go on about your business. I want to talk to Norris a few minutes. Let me have the rod and reel, Mary Faye. Now, Mr. Norris. I’ll bet that nose hurts, don’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why don’t you stand up real easy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stood up, stretching his neck out and holding his head still like a dog smelling a dead snake, his hands hanging down by his sides with his fingers spread like he was afraid of touching something gooey—or like he <em>had</em> touched something gooey.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay,” said Daddy, “I’ll tell you what let’s do—do you want to get that old worm out of there?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down, easy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_46"></a>“Now the first thing I want you to do is give me your hand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris reached out his hand and Daddy took it in his hand and massaged it around and around. “Now you just relax. We’ll get that old worm right out of there in no time flat. You think about that little sting as a mosquito bite.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down. A tear dropped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now you take holt of the line right here—that’s right. Right there. That’s good. Now you just move your hand up along the line until it gets up to that little hook. Okay. Now. You relax and I’m going to wrap my hand around your hand and help you out a little bit.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded up and down, slow. His eyes were getting bigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hold your head real still and we’ll—”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy nudged up and then down, and that hook came right out—as pretty as you please. Aunt Flossie went over and hugged Norris and he started bawling and his nose started bleeding but we put some cold towels on it. Mama got a little alcohol on some cotton up in there and then some Vaseline. Norris cried with the alcohol but calmed down with the Vaseline.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We ate banana sandwiches for lunch. Then me and Uncle Nate went along with Daddy and Charles to watch them surf fish. First we stopped by the fish market and bought some fish to cut up and use for bait; then we drove to this spot where Daddy said the blues might be biting.</p>

  <p class="indent">They’d cast far out with a piece of dead fish on the hook, then stand there for ten or fifteen minutes before winding in <a id="page_47"></a>the line to check the bait, which was smoothed down and considerably smaller than when they first threw it out. Charles said the sand and current did that. He let me hold his rod for a while, then he asked Uncle Nate if he wanted to hold it for a while, but he said no, and at about three o’clock Uncle Nate left—said he was going to walk up to the boardwalk and try to find a newspaper. We fished until about five and caught one fish. Daddy caught him but he was too little to keep.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got back to the cottage, Mama and the others had been swimming. Everybody was sunburned except Daddy. He wears all his clothes at the beach, all the time, every time we go.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate didn’t turn up for supper and I could tell Mama was worried. We had cold fried chicken left over from the trip down, tomatoes, hot snap beans, and fresh hot biscuits, and had finished and been sitting around talking for a while when in walked Uncle Nate: drunk. But I didn’t think he was terribly drunk because he looked decent, except he had one sleeve rolled up and the other rolled down and unbuttoned.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “what in the world have you gone and done?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, Doris, nothing in the worl’ but been fishing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare,” says Mama, “you’d think you could come to the beach with your own family and behave yourself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy walked out on the porch with his oatmeal cookie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was over on the couch reading a <em>Time</em> magazine. Uncle Nate went over and sat down beside him.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where’d you go to school, boy?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They teach you the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_48"></a>“The what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The stays and capols.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t think so? You don’t think so? Wha’s capol of Missesota?” He was drunker than he looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Missesota?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Minnesota.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>You don’t know! You don’t know! St. Paul.</em> Hell no, they di’n teach you no capols.” Uncle Nate looked around.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama, “there’ll be no cussing in this beach cottage. You have done enough damage getting drunk in front of these children. It’s bad enough without you cussing in the very cottage Al Douglas has been nice enough to rent us at half price.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at her and then turned back to Charles. “Montgomery Alabama, Phoenix Arizona, Little Rock Arkansas, Sacramento California, Denver Colorado. Hell, I know ‘em every one.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “now I have told you—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Name a stay,” Uncle Nate says to Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Florida.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Tallahassee. Ha. See? Capol T-a-l-l-a-h-a-s-s-e-e. We had to learn to spell them too. How come you din have to learn the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What good is it?” asks Charles, pushing up off the couch with his hands and slipping away.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Why, hell, if you’re traveling through Miss’ippi and somebody says ‘what’s the capol of this stay?’ you say ‘St. Paul.’ You know something about <a id="page_49"></a>the stay you’re in. What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Hell, why come you learn anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Charles, “I’m just thinking why not write it all down on a piece of paper, put it in your billfold, and then spend all that time learning something else. Then when somebody wants to know a capital, pull out the piece of paper and read the answer.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Read</em> the answer. <em>Read</em> the answer. Shit, when I went to school—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate!” Mama says. “I said I was not going to have it and I mean it. If you want me to call the law you just keep it up. I’ll do it. I’ll do it right this very night.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate got quiet, almost whispering—“When I went to school you learned your lessons. You went home and learned your lessons. And when it was time to work you worked. And when it was time to go to church, you went to church. And when it was time to go to bed, you went to bed. And when it was ti—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just glad I didn’t have to learn the states and capitals,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We had to <em>spell</em> them too.” Uncle Nate spit on “spell.” “Miss’ippi. Capol M-i-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i. Jackson. Capol J-a-c-k-s-o-n.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m glad you learned all that,” said Charles, getting up from the couch. “I think it’s about time I turned in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t care if you’re too good to talk to me,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I’m too good to talk to you.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_50"></a>“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes, yes, yes you do. I know when somebody thinks they’re too good to talk to me. But don’t worry, you’re not the first one. You just go right ahead off to beddy bye, sonny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles looked at me and I remembered we were sleeping on the couch. Everybody but Daddy had been sitting around listening. They started getting up—except Mama, who was sitting on a stool by the sink—and heading off to bed. It was time anyway. Charles asked me if I wanted to go out and get a breath of fresh air and I said I did.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you wanted to go to bed?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re sitting on my bed,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m sitting on the goddamn couch.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama stood up. “Uncle Nate,” I said. “Now, listen, Charles does not think he’s too good for you. You’ve just had too much to drink, and I think you ought to cut out that language. You’re here with the entire family and the least you can do is be polite. Charles does not think he’s too good for you. He’s just got his own opinions like anybody else, that’s all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked straight at me, with his mouth open and his eyes red and droopy, “You’re right, honey,” he says. “You’re exactly right.” And he starts crying. “I love you all more than anything,” he says, “and I pray for ever’one of you ever’night. I pray for you, Doris, and you, Raney, and for you, Naomi, and Thurman, and you, Flossie, and the kids and you too, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate, you’d better pray for yourself,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at Mama. His head was bobbing around and tears were on his cheeks. His head got still and he smiled and said, “Oh, I do that first.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_51"></a>“Let’s go outside,” Charles says to me. I walked over and patted Uncle Nate on the back and then me and Charles went outside while Mama fussed at Uncle Nate for taking the Lord’s name in vain.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked down to the beach and started toward the pier. Mary Faye was following us. We stopped and she stopped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’ll have to go back, Mary Faye,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You just will.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’re going to walk down to the pier and it’s time for you to go to bed.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not sleepy. Come on. Let me go. Daddy said I could.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Charles to wait and I went back and talked to Mary Faye. I figured she might be upset too. I told her that Uncle Nate was a good man at heart and not to be afraid of him, that God moves in mysterious ways, and that Uncle Nate’s cussing was the work of the Devil.</p>

  <p class="indent">She said she just wanted to go to the pier.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I explained that Charles was upset about Uncle Nate and that I needed to talk to him and that we’d go to the pier tomorrow.</p>

  <p class="indent">She kicked the sand, making it squeak, turned around and went on back.</p>

  <p class="indent">At the pier, Charles said Uncle Nate was a “weird bird.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean?” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he’s so neat, and so infernally obsessive. Drinking water at the same time every day?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he does. Three o’clock in the afternoon.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s just . . . the way he sits around and falls asleep; and then those incredible binges. He’s obviously depressed.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_52"></a>“Charles, he had some terrible times in World War II and sometimes he can’t hardly breathe with that asthma and emphysema or whatever. He never recovered from the war and Mama’s had to take care of him, don’t you see? And he won’t talk to anybody about what happened to him, except Uncle Newton—all night one night, they say. And Uncle Newton’s getting too sick for anybody to talk to, much. And he has to take those drugs for his nerves and his asthma. And he got that terrible burn on over fifty percent of his body. He’s got one big awful scar all over his body that he’ll have to carry with him all his life, plus his lungs from inhaling all that smoke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, there are lots of men who were wounded and had terrible times in World War II, and Vietnam, and World War I. They don’t necessarily sit around falling asleep all the time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Maybe they sleep at night, Charles. Maybe you don’t know all about what’s wrong with everybody, and maybe it’s something besides ‘psychology.’ I think part of the problem is you don’t think Uncle Nate likes you all that much.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s right. And where do you suppose I got that idea? He is obviously jealous. It’s not a great deal of fun being around that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s not the only other one in my family who you get to be around, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, he’s not the only other one; that’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It’s too bad Charles was a only child brought up without any family around. When he went to see a aunt or uncle, his mama and daddy had to carry him to another state. He just don’t have a single sense about family, about having family.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_53"></a>When Uncle Nate is sober he’s as nice as he can be. And you’ll never find anybody neater. His clothes are always pressed and starched. Well, Mama keeps them that way, but he keeps everything hung up and straight and folded. Then he’ll get drunk and filthy and come home and cuss something awful. And nobody able to do a thing unless it’s the law. Dorcus Kerr, the deputy sheriff, can usually handle him pretty well. Mama hates it when it comes to that. Daddy usually calls Dorcus, and Dorcus comes in his uniform. He puts it on if he’s off duty. Uncle Nate respects a uniform.</p>

  <p class="indentt">By Friday night, Uncle Nate had gotten sober on his own, thank goodness. After supper he wanted to hear “Give Me the Roses,” so Charles and me got out our instruments and did it. It’s one of our favorites too. It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">Wonderful things of folks are said<br />
  When they are passed away.<br />
  Roses adorn their narrow bed<br />
  Over the sleeping clay.<br />
  Give me the roses while I live,<br />
  Trying to cheer me on.<br />
  Useless are flowers that you give<br />
  After the soul is gone.</p>

  <p class="indentt">And it has a couple more verses.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy wanted to hear “Unclouded Day,” which Charles has been wanting to learn ever since I met him. We learned it about three weeks ago. So we did that, and then “Are You Tired of Me, My Darling?” and “Fifty Miles of Elbow Room,” two other Carter family tunes Daddy and Charles like. We tried to get everybody to sing on “Fifty <a id="page_54"></a>Miles,” but Uncle Nate and Daddy would be so far off key everybody would start laughing and that would get me laughing and that would get Charles laughing.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we finished singing, Uncle Nate told about the Christmas Uncle Pugg went to Raleigh to sell wreaths and holly and mistletoe and got lost and was too proud to ask anybody the way home. He slept that night in a church and the next morning the preacher saw him come out and asked him if he was the man who’d come to fix the steps. Uncle Pugg said he was. He had his tools in a box in the wagon. He fixed the steps and the preacher asked him to fix the roof and so he did that. Then the preacher asked him if he brought the window to put in. Uncle Pugg said he didn’t but that a man over in Bethel had the window and could the preacher tell him how to get there. The preacher told him, and Uncle Pugg came on home.</p>

  <p class="indent">At about ten o’clock when everybody else was going to bed, me and Charles walked out to the pier. Charles said he wasn’t even sure about the <em>names</em> of anybody in his family, besides his mama and daddy and aunts and uncles. I couldn’t imagine aunts and uncles not sitting around and telling all about <em>their</em> aunts and uncles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Out on the pier the breeze was steady and cool and the air had that fresh salty smell without the dead fish smell. The moon was coming up over the water, and waves hit against the poles, moving the pier the least bit. The moon was a dark red—because of the atmosphere, Charles said. He said it looks big at the horizon because it’s magnified by the air, which I’d never thought about. I always thought the orbit was closer when it came up, and then moved away. It sure <em>looks</em> <a id="page_55"></a>that way. Charles said the red was because of chemicals and such in the atmosphere. He knows about stuff I never think about. Anyway, the moon got whiter and higher and soon reflected white off the water.</p>

  <p class="indent">We stood against the rail, pushing our shoulders together, and Charles sung this little song:</p>

  <p class="poem">I see the moon and the moon sees me.<br />
  And the moon sees the one that I want to see.<br />
  God bless the moon and God bless me.<br />
  And God bless the one that I want to see.</p>

  <p class="indent">I love Charles more than anything. Sometimes he’s hard to get along with, and sometimes he has some problems with the family, but he makes up for it in all kinds of little ways, and he’s always praising my singing to other people. Daddy said he thought Charles had plenty of common sense beneath all that book learning, and then too at the wedding Daddy said he thought Charles was a good man.</p>

  <p class="indent">We came back home on Saturday and on the way Mama read to us out of a pamphlet she got in a drug store. It was about having a Christian home and the husband’s role and the wife’s role. I thought it made good sense, but Charles goes into a sermon right there in the back seat about customs being different in Bible times—which is not the point.</p>

  <p class="indentt">After we got back from the beach, and Charles got his rods separated out, and we drove on home and unpacked, and finished eating supper—some chili I froze before we left—Charles says, “I think I’ll call Johnny.” I had totally forgot to say anything about the vent or ask Charles if Johnny was a minority, but before I could say anything, Charles was on the <a id="page_56"></a>phone, talking about the beach trip. I was eating peaches for dessert and it didn’t seem like Charles minded me sitting there listening.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s got blue hair,” he said, “and talks more than anybody I ever met.” He was talking about you know who: Aunt Naomi, and eyeing me while he sat there, twisting the curly black phone cord around his finger. Then Johnny must have asked Charles what I looked like. “What does <em>she</em> look like?” said Charles, and looked at me and winked. “The most beautiful eyes I’ve ever seen, some kind of blue-green, and her front two teeth tuck back just enough to make her mouth cute, kind of pouty, and besides all that, she has the purest singing voice ever—can bend a note on a country song as good as any blues singer you ever heard. . . . What? No. No bad habits. Wait a minute. Raney, would you please leave the room?” Then he laughed and said I cussed too much which was a flip-flop because Charles is the one who cusses, and then he said the only fault he could think of was I didn’t give him any warning when I started a song and that I rubbed my nose straight up with the flat palm of my hand, but that was cute. Then he said none of my other faults were my fault.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought about going to the bedroom and listening through the vent, but that wouldn’t have been fair. Maybe it would have been fair if Charles was my child. Mama read my mail; but it was for my own interest. She said she wasn’t interested from curiosity, but for the sake of my well-being. So since Charles won’t my child and did have a peculiar reaction about privacy which I don’t understand, I decided I should tell him about the vent when he finished talking. But he talked so <em>long</em>. He told about the fish hook in Norris’s nose and then went <a id="page_57"></a>through Uncle Nate’s spelling lesson almost word for word and then some more about Aunt Naomi. He had good things to say about Daddy and Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished talking, Charles said Johnny said hello.</p>

  <p class="indent">I asked Charles what I dreaded: “Charles, is Johnny a minority?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s black, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A picture flashed in my mind of Mama and Daddy and Mary Faye and Norris and Uncle Nate and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and maybe a child of ours in the living room with Charles and his best friend, a nigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did you say something to him about coming here?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, not tonight. Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just wondered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Would that be a problem?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t guess so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t guess so?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, Charles, I know you were in the war together and everything but this ain’t exactly the war.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with our friendship?’</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Then why are we talking about this?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. The army has been segregated since 1948, you said, but Listre still has the black laundromat and the white laundromat and nobody complaining—neither side. Johnny might get embarrassed downtown, that’s all I’m worried about.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_58"></a>“You mean the army has been <em>integrated</em> since 1948.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I said.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You said <em>segregated</em>.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whatever.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, don’t worry about how Johnny might feel. He’s sensitive to racial issues. You don’t need to talk to a race horse about the race. He’s been there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What are you talking about?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I’m saying is that Johnny knows about towns like Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with a race horse?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Never mind. Don’t worry about it. He’s not coming anytime soon as far as I know. He’s busy with law school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">What happened with all this conversation about Johnny Dobbs was: I forgot to mention the vent.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_7">VI</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles’s mother called on the Monday after we got back from the beach and said she was going to Connecticut the first week in September to see her sister, Charles’s Aunt Sue, and would like to drop by to see us—on the way up (Monday, Monday night, and Tuesday), and on the way back down to Atlanta (Saturday night and Sunday). She asked if it would be all right, if three months had given us enough time to settle in. I told her it had. She said not to do any extra preparing.</p>

  <p class="indent">Lord, Lord. Last week was the big week. And it was not <a id="page_59"></a>smooth, like I’d hoped it would be. Charles had that meeting at our house—wouldn’t cancel it—on Monday night, then the Sneeds business was all over the newspaper on the following Saturday which we got in a argument about at Sunday dinner at Mama’s with Charles’s mother sitting right there in the middle of it, taking up for Sneeds. Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Not to speak of the fact that Charles and Millie went to an Episcopal Church Sunday morning—and dragged me along.</p>

  <p class="indent">I figured from the start we’d put Millie in the guest room. (She told me on the phone, again, to call her Millie.) Charles suggested <em>we</em> stay in the guest room and his mama stay in our room. I said a guest is a guest and that his mother was the guest and that’s what the room is: a guest room.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said his mother was not used to sleeping on a narrow bed. So I asked him what did he think I was used to sleeping on, and why didn’t he just give his mother the whole house and we’d move on down to the Landmark Motel for the duration.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a matter of principle for me and I won out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday, before she came on Monday, I vacuumed the whole place, cleaned the window panes in front, shined up the bathroom, and made the guest room a little nicer by putting in the radio alarm clock, our antique brass lamp, a wall mirror, a little table with some fruit in a bowl, and our biggest wedding picture. Then I realized the fruit bowl might draw gnats, so I took that out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday night Charles tells me about this meeting he’s planning to have at our house Monday night—whether his mama is there or not. He’s joined this thing called a TEA club; he’s been to several meetings and it was his turn to have the meeting <a id="page_60"></a>at our house. The TEA stands for Thrifty Energy Alternatives. I suddenly realized that with people coming to the meeting, and with Charles’s mother being there, I’d have to paint, or Charles would have to paint, the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, if you’ll paint that living room some color I can understand then I’ll be happy for you to have your meeting here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it as it is?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why do you think I’ve carried back those six sets of drapes?” See, Charles is just like a man. Has no more sense for color schemes than Bill Grogan’s goat. “They didn’t <em>go</em>. Nothing goes with that scum green tint. And Mama said none of them went. And for sure your mother and somebody at the meeting will notice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re telling me you don’t want the meeting over here unless I paint the living room?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Most certainly. And your mother can’t come unless you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney. Do you have some color in mind? My God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some off-white without that green in it. And I’ve told you about cussing in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You get the paint and I’ll paint it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I did. Saturday morning. And Charles painted the living room. Saturday afternoon, before he finished, I got these real nice gold and brown drapes that go. Then after that I got my hair done.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday afternoon Charles goes to the Winn Dixie for groceries and comes back with a bottle of <em>wine</em>. He didn’t even ask me—just brought it in as bright as day with the groceries, and I found it while I was unpacking.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_61"></a>“Charles, what’s this for?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The TEA meeting.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d rather not have wine in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, some of the people coming to the meeting will be bringing wine. I’d like also to have some available—for my own mother, anyway.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. Why do you need wine at a meeting?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“To drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t say anything else, partly because it involved Charles and his own mother and partly because it won’t champagne, which evidently does something to Charles’s brain, and partly, I suppose, because I thought of Madora. She drinks wine at meals, like the French, and she poured me some one afternoon a couple of weeks ago—by mistake: she knows I don’t drink. I took a sip, though, to see what all the fuss was about.</p>

  <p class="indent">Madora’s as fine a Christian as you’ll find—judging from what all she does for people, and how good she is to her mama and daddy. I drunk only one sip. I told her it was better than champagne. She said champagne <em>was</em> wine, which surprised me because they don’t taste the same at all.</p>

  <p class="indent">We picked up Millie at the airport at about one o’clock Monday afternoon. She was wearing dark green slacks and a blouse she seemed too old for, and she brought me a present—some of those little knitted soap holders I never use.</p>

  <p class="indent">We waited for her bags forever. She had two great big brown leather suitcases and one little one. Lord knows what all she had in there—for just one week.</p>

  <p class="indent">To get from the airport to Listre you have to go through Bethel, so on the way home we stopped in at Mama’s for a few minutes. Mama had insisted, and I thought it was a good idea.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_62"></a>Mama and Aunt Naomi were there, sitting in the living room, talking. They had been to a sale at Belks.</p>

  <p class="indent">Everybody said hello to everybody and we all sat down and Mama said something about the sale. She got a navy blue bedspread for forty percent off and Aunt Naomi got a throw rug and two lamp shades for half price. Then they mentioned that on the way back from the sale they’d stopped by the funeral home to see Hattie Rigsbee who had died of a stroke the day before.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She looked so good,” Mama said. “Her skin was clear, good color, no swelling.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve seen them awful swelled,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it happens worse when they have a heart attack and nobody gets there right away. I remember Wingate Bryant looked awful. They figured he died right after he went to bed, laid there all night and when Rose got up to go to work she figured he was still asleep, until she brought him a plate of spaghetti at lunch and there he was: still in bed. She worked at the school cafeteria,” she said to Millie, “across the street, and would bring him a plate of whatever they had. He was retired. From the telephone company.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember that,” says Mama. “You know, I do believe Hattie Rigsbee, today, was about the best looking corpse I’ve ever seen.” She looked straight at Millie, then at Charles, to get them in the conversation.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stands up and walks to the kitchen. I could tell he was mad about something; but Lord knows, I didn’t know what, and I hoped Mama and Aunt Naomi and Millie hadn’t noticed.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me put on some coffee,” I said, “and see if I can rustle <a id="page_63"></a>up some cookies.” I followed Charles on back to the kitchen and whispered, “Charles, what in the world is the matter with you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s the matter?” he whispers, staring. “What’s the matter? Did you hear what she said?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who?” I whispered.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who? Who? Your mother.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?” he whispers louder. “About the corpse looking good and all that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I guess I did. I was sitting there, won’t I? What in the world was wrong with that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it? It’s uncivilized—that’s what’s wrong with it. Raney, the body in the funeral home is not the person. It’s the person’s body. Why can’t your mother talk about the person, for God’s sake?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t you use profanity in this kitchen. And don’t get uppity because your mother’s here. What do you expect? They were being respectful of Hattie Rigsbee. That’s all. I’ll bet you didn’t even know she died.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Respect is not the word. Morbid is the word. No, I didn’t know Hattie Rigsbee died. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee was <em>born.</em>”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you should have. You been living around here long enough.” I was looking for cookies as hard as I could.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, we don’t live around here. We live in Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">About that time I heard Mama coming down the hall. She came on in the kitchen. “Look, it’s no need to mess with coffee,” she said. “Mrs. Shepherd says she needs to get on over to ya’ll’s house and get settled. Next Sunday you’re all invited <a id="page_64"></a>over here after church for dinner. Her airplane don’t leave until six-thirty so it’ll work out just right. And we can all go to church together Sunday morning.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We drove home and got Millie and all her bags settled in the guest room. I’d planned to fix a meatloaf for supper but remembered Sunday about her being a vegetarian. Charles said to fix omelettes but I’d never cooked a omelette so I had to call Madora for a recipe. I practiced Sunday night, so the real thing Monday night turned out pretty good. Millie helped.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had cooked—of all things—one of Aunt Flossie’s apple pies. He got her to show him exactly how to cook one—he likes them so much. After his mama had a piece she raved about it and asked <em>me</em> what the recipe was. That Charles just sat there smiling and did not say one thing until I explained to Millie that Charles fixed it, not me. She thought I was kidding until Charles talked through about the ingredients and how you fix it. I didn’t dare mention that I hadn’t ever taken on any kind of pie. This one was good. It was a little tart, but it was good.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was just beginning to relax when Millie asks, “Is there an Episcopal church nearby?” I had forgot about her changing over to the Episcopals.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There’s one in White Level,” says Charles. “Sara—at the library—goes there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re more than welcome to come to our church,” I said. “And since we’re going to eat at Mama’s, we’ll be close by.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really like the formality of the Episcopal service,” says Millie. “I’ve gotten used to it. Charles, give them a call this week and if they’re celebrating Eucharist Sunday morning at around ten or eleven, I could slip over for that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_65"></a>I didn’t know what a Eucharist was. Likely as not they’d be celebrating something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Or,” she says, “if you two like, you could come along with me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I could go to an Episcopal church,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why not?” they both said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’re against some of the things we believe in most.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, they serve real wine at the Lord’s supper. And they have priests, don’t they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes,” said Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I don’t especially approve of the way priests drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Jesus drank—if that’s what you mean—as I understand it,” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, he turned the water into wine at the wedding feast.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, but that was grape juice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Grape juice?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus turned water into wine on the spot,” I said, “it had to be grape juice because it didn’t have time to ferment.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a pause.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus could make wine,” says <em>Charles</em> (you could tell whose side he was on), “he could just as easily make it fermented as not, couldn’t he? Why mess around with half a miracle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve been going to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church for twenty-four years now,” I said, “and Mr. Brooks, Mr. Tolley, Mr. Honneycutt, and all these other men have been studying the Bible for all their lives and they say it’s grape juice. All added together they’ve probably studied the Bible over a hundred years. I’m not going to sit in my own kitchen and go against that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_66"></a>“But there are Buddhist monks,” says Charles, “who have studied religion for an accumulation of millions of years and they say Jesus was only a holy man and not the son of God. You can find anybody who’s studied something for X number of years. I’m not sure what that proves.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“These Buddhist monks were not studying the Bible,” I said. “They were studying the <em>Koran</em>. We talked about that in Sunday School.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they were studying the <em>Koran,</em>” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You’re talking about Islam.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, the point is: I’m not talking about the Bible. If it’s not in the Bible I’m not interested in it because if I have to stop believing in the Bible I might as well stop living on earth.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Here, let’s get the dishes washed up,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I appreciate your faith—I guess it’s a small matter anyway. Sometimes I think we spend too much time on relatively picky religious matters.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It won’t no <em>picky</em> matter to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">While we were cleaning up I saw where Charles got his habit of taking the strainer out of the sink and leaving it out, and turning on the faucet and leaving it on. But I didn’t say anything. She was nice to help.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we finished cleaning up, somebody knocked on the front door. That durn TEA Club meeting. I felt like I hadn’t had time to get my bearings.</p>

  <p class="indent">The meeting was something, and Millie joined in just like she knew everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was this woman dressed in rags who brought her <a id="page_67"></a>baby in a sack on her back. Looked like she’d just walked away from a plane crash with her baby all tangled up in her clothes. What’s more, she was cock-eyed. Looked like she was looking in two directions at once. Like those pictures of John Kennedy.</p>

  <p class="indent">There were more unusual people there. But listen to what the meeting was about: they all, including Charles, and his mama, just flown in from Atlanta, are dead set against the Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant being built north of here.</p>

  <p class="indent">That takes a lot a gall. These scientists have been working for years to get this plant built and Charles and these, well . . . a couple of them looked like hippies to me, and there was a doctor and two college teachers who looked like they don’t eat right and the one with the baby—they all get together and in about fifteen minutes decide that the nuclear power plant has got to go. Has got to <em>go</em>, mind you.</p>

  <p class="indent">They haven’t hurt anything at the power plant. And electricity certainly has to come from somewhere.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was in Pope’s the other day and the mayor, Mr. Crenshaw, was talking to Mrs. Moss. He said the power plant was the best thing that ever happened to Listre—that it would bring new jobs and make taxes lower.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now he’s the mayor. He’s somebody I can listen to. Somebody with a respectable position in the community who <em>has</em> to know what he’s talking about, else he wouldn’t be mayor.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes I believe these hippies and college professors sit around and frown and complain about what’s helping a community most.</p>

  <p class="indent">Look at the war. These hippies and such were telling the people who knew the most about it how to run it. So we lost. Now they’re doing the same thing with this power plant. Do <a id="page_68"></a>you see the people from the power plant telling the hippies how to be hippies? No, because they don’t know anything about it. So they keep their mouths shut.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles told me I could come up front to the meeting but I stayed back in the kitchen. After about thirty minutes, Millie did come back and talk to me about how nice Charles and me had fixed up the house. She had a glass of wine, but that’s the only one she drunk as far as I know. I never thought I’d see wine under a roof I lived under. Live and learn. I won’t be a prude; but I do have principles and I will certainly keep close guard on what goes on. We’re not going to have any alcohol under this roof for more than twelve hours, and otherwise only on some special occasions of Charles’s. And when we have a child we’ll have to discuss the whole thing very seriously. I never saw a drop of alcohol at home except in a bottle Uncle Nate brought in.</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Millie about Charles painting the living room and she thought it was funny about not being able to find any drapes to go with the old paint. She said Charles had a good “role model” for fixing up around the house because Bill, Dr. Shepherd, had always helped her. I thought about Daddy. He’s never done anything, as far as I can remember, inside the house. He works outside, but not inside. I don’t think Mama wants him working in the house. She certainly never lets anybody do anything in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles won’t do a thing outside but pull up crabgrass out of the sidewalk cracks once in a while. I don’t know why he gets such a kick out of that. I think it’s connected somehow to his strange ideas about germs. He buys these big jars of alcohol to clean the bathroom sink with. I’ve seen him through the bathroom door—through the crack. He’ll scrub around the <a id="page_69"></a>hole in the bottom of the sink with a ball of cotton soaked in alcohol. Lord knows where else he scrubs. I’ll bet he goes through a bottle of alcohol every two weeks. I go in there some mornings and it smells like County Hospital. I started to ask Millie about that but I didn’t. Maybe he got it from her. (It’s funny what all you find out about your husband after you get married.)</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished the meeting, Charles came back to the kitchen and showed me this letter they wrote with Charles’s name signed. Charles asked me what I thought. I said if they all wrote it, why didn’t they all sign it? This is the letter. Millie told him a couple of words to change.</p>

  <p class="noindent1"><small>DEAR EDITOR:</small></p>

  <p class="indent">A state geologist has recently claimed that an area near the proposed Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant is ideal for a hazardous waste disposal site. One of the reasons given is the low population of the area. I suppose the reasoning is that if there are problems, then fewer people will suffer.</p>

  <p class="indent">It occurs to me that any reason to NOT put something in a highly populated area should also be a good reason NOT to put it in an area of low population.</p>

  <p class="indent">The sad fact is that problems of nuclear waste disposal are not solved. This generation should not be making decisions that will cause future generations to suffer horrible consequences.</p>

  <p class="right"><em>Charles Shepherd</em></p>

  <p class="indent">Charles took off work Tuesday afternoon; we took his mama to the airport; and when we got back home we had a little talk which turned into a argument.</p>

  <p class="indent">I merely asked Charles why he has to be friends with these college professors and such—why he can’t be friends with my friends. He went with me <em>once</em> to see Madora and her husband, Larry. And Sandra and Billy Ferrell have asked us over for supper twice and he wouldn’t go either time. I know they won’t ask us again.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_70"></a>“<em>These</em> people <em>think,</em>” he says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Think?” I said. “Who <em>don’t</em> think? Everybody thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean think about something important, something beyond the confines of their own lives.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What is that supposed to mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means getting beyond Listre and Bethel. That’s what it means. Raney, the way it works is this: small people talk about themselves; mediocre people talk about other people; and thinking people talk about ideas.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with anything?” I said. See, what happens is: Charles spouts out this stuff he’s read in the library and expects the words to be formed in gold in my head. But I’m sorry.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It has to do with who I want to be friends with,” says Charles. “Madora and—what’s his name?—Larry are not interested in anything outside their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll have you know,” I said, “that Madora and Larry go to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church. Don’t tell me that Jesus Christ is only in their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The problem,” says Charles, “the whole problem is just that: Jesus wouldn’t have a kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He would if he lived in Bethel.” I tried to let that sink in. “No matter what your mama thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why are you bringing her into this?” (I wasn’t sure.) “Raney. Jesus Christ was a radical. If the people at Bethel Free Will Baptist met Jesus they’d laugh at him . . . or lynch him.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_71"></a>“A radical? Charles, I had a personal experience with Jesus Christ when I was twelve years old. He wasn’t a radical then. And I did not laugh. As a matter of fact, I cried.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Were you saved, Raney? Is that it? Were you saved and now you’re going to heaven and nothing else matters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, and I was mad, “you can run down whoever and whatever you want to, but when you run down my experience with Jesus Christ you are putting yourself below the belly of a hog.” I was tore up. I had to cry. I walked out of the kitchen, into the bedroom and slammed the door with both hands as hard as I could; and Charles goes out the front door and drives off. And didn’t come back for thirty minutes.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_8">VII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We didn’t speak Wednesday or Thursday, but had started warming up some on Friday. Then Friday night we went to see a movie—some awful thing Charles wanted to see—and then Saturday morning the Sneeds business was all over <em>The Hansen County Pilot</em>. As I said, Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Sneeds Perry. I don’t know him except from when I go in the store. He’s always seemed nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">What he did was get arrested in Raleigh at two <small>A.M</small>. Friday night for trying to pick up this woman he <em>thought</em> was a you-know-what but instead was a policewoman. They caught him red-handed. And then the whole subject had to come up at Sunday dinner with Mrs.—, with Millie, there visiting.</p>

  <p class="indent">She came back Saturday night on the airplane, which was <a id="page_72"></a>late, and I could of sworn I smelled liquor on her breath. Then we had to wait for all those suitcases, which we loaded into the trunk and carted home and into the guest room again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had found out that the Episcopal service started at 10:30 <small>A.M.</small> Sunday and that they were having that Eucharist, so they decided they’d go for sure and Millie wanted to know if I was going with them. They seemed like they wanted me to, so I said yes. I wanted to see what the service was like, if nothing else.</p>

  <p class="indent">The service was the most unusual church service you’ve ever seen. First of all, I didn’t know any of the hymns, and <em>neither did the regular people there</em>. You’d expect the regular people there to know their own hymns. They wandered all around on notes that didn’t have anything to do with the melody and, all in all, didn’t sing with any spunk. And they kept kneeling on these teenie-tiny benches. It was up and down, up and down. I got right nervous looking out the corner of my eye to see when it was up and when it was down.</p>

  <p class="indent">The priest had a yellow robe with a butterfly on the back. Now that is plum sacrilegious if you ask me. A house of worship is no place to play Halloween.</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the most surprising things of all was that the very thing you come to church to hear wasn’t there. A sermon. There was no sermon. The priest talked about three minutes on hope and people in the ghettos, which may have been a sermon to him, but not to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">They had the Lord’s supper, but they didn’t pass it around. You had to go up front, kneel down (of course), and get it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was a little nervous about drinking real wine in church. But when I thought about it I ended up figuring maybe that <a id="page_73"></a>was the best place to do it and God would forgive me. It was red wine and about knocked my socks off. It was stronger somehow than Madora’s white wine and that expensive stuff that I tried in the kitchen at Charles’s TEA party. (That bottle had the price tag on it. Six dollars and something. It seemed like to me it should have cost less because it kind of disappeared once you got it in your mouth.) I want you to know the priest gulped down every bit that was left over at the end. That was an education to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">All in all, it just wasn’t <em>set up</em> like a church service. I must admit, several people were nice after the service, but most of them had Yankee accents. They were probably people who’ve come down to work at the new G.E. plant outside White Level.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said he liked it—that it was “formal.” I didn’t see anything formal about it. It was confusing to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie were at Mama’s for Sunday dinner, along with the rest of us. Everybody seemed happy to see Millie and she seemed likewise. I was a little tense. For one thing I was worried that the Sneeds business would come up, but I figured it wouldn’t—not at Sunday dinner.</p>

  <p class="indent">We got seated, Mama asked Charles to say the blessing; he did; and we started helping ourselves.</p>

  <p class="indent">I passed the okra to Aunt Naomi. She helped her plate and says, “You want some okra, son?” and passed the bowl to Charles. “We won’t get much more this year.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, thanks,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No? You don’t like okra?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nope.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_74"></a>“Well, I declare. That’s surprising. Have you ever had it fried before?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I can’t remember. I don’t think so. I’ve had it boiled.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hadn’t ever fried any okra for this boy?” Mama says to Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’ve never been much on okra, somehow,” says Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you ain’t had nothing until you’ve had some good fried okra,” says Aunt Naomi, and she drops a piece onto Charles’s plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember when I was a little girl no older than Mary Faye there,” says Aunt Naomi. “I couldn’t stand boiled okra because it was so slimy. For some reason, that’s the only way my mama ever fixed it. So I know what you mean. Then when I was, oh, about a teenager, I got aholt of some good fried okra. Mercy me—better than pop corn, with just a tiny hint of fried oyster flavor. Do you like fried oysters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do,” said Charles. He was staring at the piece of fried okra on his plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pop corn?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, then, you’ll love fried okra. Go ahead, try it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Aw, go ahead. You’ll love it; I guarantee. Then when you go home your mama can fix it for you, can’t you, Millie?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles ate the piece of okra. It <em>was</em> good okra.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now, ain’t that good?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was pretty good,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi gets the bowl and hands it to Charles. “Well, here, get you out some.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_75"></a>“No thanks,” said Charles. “I’m just fine. I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I declare,” says Aunt Naomi. “I’m surprised. I thought for sure you’d love it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the bowl back and Daddy asked him if he saw the Braves game Saturday and they started talking while Aunt Naomi says, “I don’t know what I’d do without my fried okra. That and turnip salet. Why I could make a meal off turnip salet and cornbread, two meals a day for a month. There just ain’t <em>nothing</em> any better. Nothing. Doris, your favorite was always cabbage, won’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I always liked turnip salet too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I hate it,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hate everything,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll went to the Episcopal church in White Level?” says Aunt Naomi. She was looking at Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did. It was really nice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they have a priest like the Catholics?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, they do,” said Millie. “I think their duties might be a bit different, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they make them preach in a certain town where they assign them—like in the army?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They don’t,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made many a meal on turnip salet and cornbread,” says Uncle Nate. He had his hair slicked straight back, like <a id="page_76"></a>always, and was wearing a white starched shirt with the collar open. “And Aunt Annie’s nigger, Monkey—remember how he used to all the time talk about drinking turnip green pot liquor?”</p>

  <p class="indent">That got Charles’s and Millie’s attention. I was afraid Charles was going to go into his speech about saying “nigger” but he didn’t, thank goodness. And Millie didn’t, thank goodness. (Charles is sitting there with a big hunk of cream potatoes on his plate, no gravy, two pieces of chicken, a piece of roast beef, a pickle and a piece of cornbread and a roll. No vegetables. He will not get any healthy recipes from Aunt Flossie: only apple pie, fried chicken, and such. It’s a wonder he don’t get pimples—again. You can tell where he had them a little bit when he was a teenager. Pock marks. I can’t imagine how he gets his system cleaned out. It looks like somebody who works in a library would have more sense about what to eat. And Charles ain’t the type to shun new things. His mother, of course, had just the opposite: a plate full of vegetables.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s pot liquor?” says Charles to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate had his mouth full, which don’t usually stop him from talking—as Charles has pointed out to me on the way home so many times that now <em>I</em> notice. But this time he kept chewing and didn’t answer.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie answered: “It’s what’s left in the pot after cooking cabbage—usually cabbage. Course I’ve seen collard and turnip green pot liquor.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That sounds interesting,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?” asks Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” said Uncle Nate, swallowing his potatoes, <a id="page_77"></a>“Uncle Springer took Monkey to Raleigh one Christmas to sell quail and they—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, that was just his name, I reckon. Anyway, they got snowed in and there was a light bulb in the room where they spent the night in somebody’s house. For some reason Monkey ended up staying with Uncle Springer in the same room. Anyway, Uncle Springer hadn’t ever seen a light bulb and of course Monkey hadn’t and they didn’t know it had a durn switch on it to cut it off and so before they went to bed—I imagine Monkey slept on the floor—before they went to bed they put a chest of drawers up on another table and some chairs and so on and put the durn light bulb—course they didn’t know it unscrewed either—they put the durn light bulb in the top drawer and closed it and then went to bed and got a good night’s sleep.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d heard that story once or twice but I knew Charles and Millie hadn’t. It’s a funny story but of course Charles don’t like to hear nothing about niggers unless it’s how Martin Luther King laid down in some restaurant or something. As I said, he has this thing.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wadn’t that terrible about Sneeds Perry?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything. Somebody passed something and a few forks hit plates.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to Mr. Perry?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything and Norris looked around at everybody. “What happened to Mr. Perry?” he said again.</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed through my mind: Sneeds paying one of those women to do what Charles had said for us to do on our honeymoon. “He got in trouble,” I said. “For being where he ought not to be and doing what he ought not to do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_78"></a>“What did he do?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He solicited something from a policewoman which he thought he was soliciting from a woman of the night,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“A witch?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I wouldn’t say that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think if a man wants to ruin his life in one night by breaking the law, then that’s the chance he takes,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you think he wanted to ruin his life?” said Charles. “That’s not exactly what he had in mind, do you think?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what happened,” said Aunt Naomi. “Now he won’t be able to get a job within fifty miles—at any place respectable that is. It’s a good thing he don’t have a family.” Aunt Naomi looked at Daddy. “You will have to let him go.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t decided,” said Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy, he was arrested,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re going to let him keep working out at the store?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I hadn’t thought about—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, you read what he did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know I read what he did. He ain’t been tried yet either.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He won’t buying peaches,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Peaches?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “it seems like he’d hurt business with a criminal record.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s a misdemeanor, I think,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s a misdemeanor?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush a minute, Norris,” said Mama. “It’s a minor crime.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_79"></a>“What did he do?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He didn’t do anything that would have been a great harm to anybody,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought, “<em>Charles</em>, you talk about <em>harm</em>, about <em>not harming</em>—after that on our honeymoon!”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He broke God’s law, that’s what he did,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought for sure you’d fire him, Thurman,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not going to fire a man that ain’t been convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We were quiet for a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Didn’t your church group do a thing on victimless crimes?” Charles asked his mama. “It’s a pretty interesting perspective.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes. The idea was, really, that some acts—without victims—ought to have a low priority on the list of things demanding law enforcement. That is, those crimes would be attended only after the crimes with victims were tended to. That way people would actually be better protected in the long run, because the police would spend more time solving robbery and assault cases and the like, and institutions like churches and mental health clinics could concentrate on the victimless crimes—given the proper support, of course.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed in my mind again about what these prostitutes probably do, and I wondered if Mrs. Shepherd maybe had any idea, and I wondered what she thought about all that. She might think it’s okay! I wondered if some of Charles’s attitudes could have somehow come from her—if she had the same weakness Charles had. If Charles’s weakness came from her! I remembered her and Mr. Shepherd hugging and kissing in front of everybody at the wedding. Putting on like that. I wondered about all the connections. How can you tell? You can’t ask!</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_80"></a>“I don’t know what victims has to do with all this,” said Aunt Naomi. “You don’t need to have a victim to break the word of God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If a you-know-what is not a victim,” says Mama, “I don’t know who is—but I haven’t studied all that about different kinds of crimes.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “what if he is convicted? You’ll fire him then, won’t you? I mean if he’s convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see what difference it makes whether he’s convicted. He done it. Anybody knows that,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Daddy. “I’d want to wait and see what happens.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I had never thought about Daddy keeping somebody on the job who’d do something like that. But the problem is: it didn’t seem to make any difference to about half the table sitting in my own mama’s house for Sunday dinner, every one kin to me in some way. I don’t understand why people won’t take a stand where they ought to. Especially my own daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s your store,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Things got quiet again, except for forks hitting on dishes and Uncle Nate chewing with his mouth open.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Millie, did you hear about Norris getting the fishing hook hung in his nose at the beach?” said Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, I did. Charles told me on the phone. That must have been something. Were you afraid, Norris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was afraid when it first happened. I thought a bird or something had flew up my nose.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed and then Uncle Nate told about the time one of Uncle Springer’s boys told his little brother to stick his tongue to a froze ax. We’d all heard it but Millie and Charles hadn’t. That got Uncle Nate into telling about the first car <a id="page_81"></a>Uncle Springer ever saw that had a rear view mirror on the inside and Uncle Springer says, “I comb <em>my</em> hair <em>before</em> I leave home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Springer was the one who was so bashful that on his wedding night he peed down his leg into the pot so he wouldn’t make any noise. So they <em>say</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The stories eased the tension some. For me, anyway. We finished eating; Mama and Aunt Flossie cleaned up; then we sat and talked for awhile. At about two-thirty we left and drove home. I could tell Charles was getting tired of sitting and talking. Then at about five o’clock we took Millie and those big suitcases to the airport.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before she got on the plane, she gave me a big hug and a kiss. I hugged her back but didn’t have time to figure out where to kiss her before we’d turned each other loose. I’ve just never hugged and kissed people I don’t know real well. Or people I do know real well, for that matter.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_9">VIII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">It won’t Sneeds they arrested. It was Sam Perry, Sneeds’s first cousin. The newspaper got it mixed up because Sam signed Sneeds’s name and gave Sneeds’s address, and at the police station he actually had the driver’s license that Sneeds thought he’d lost. Daddy said Sam told Sneeds he didn’t want his wife and kids to find out and he figured Sneeds wouldn’t mind. Sneeds told Daddy that Sam had done the same thing before and so he wadn’t too surprised. I can’t believe somebody would do something like that to their own cousin.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_82"></a>I was in the store Saturday morning trying to figure out whether I should mention the whole thing to Sneeds when Charles called and said to call Mama. I did, and she wanted to know if I could come over and stay with Norris and Mary Faye that afternoon while she went to sit with Uncle Newton—while Aunt Minnie helped with the church barbecue. Aunt Minnie is Daddy’s sister and has had an awful time taking care of Uncle Newton. She has to stay with him all the time. Charles was supposed to play tennis that afternoon with somebody from the library, so I said I’d be glad to come over and help out.</p>

  <p class="indent">The only reason Mama wanted me to stay is because Uncle Nate had disappeared for two days and she was afraid he might come riding up in a Yellow Cab, drunk, with nobody at home but Mary Faye and Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I went over Saturday at about two. Right before Mama drove off she blew the police whistle for Mary Faye and Norris, who were up the road at Teresa Campbell’s house, to come on home. When she saw them coming—on their bicycles—she got in the car and drove off.</p>

  <p class="indent">She was just out of sight around the curve when Norris, going about fifty miles an hour, turned, or tried to turn, into the driveway—on his Piggly Wiggly Special (that bike he won at the Piggly Wiggly opening: with a row of little red glass rubies up and down the fenders, and a saddle bag, and black rubber mud flaps, and sticking right out front under where the handlebars come together, this solid cast, little brown and white pig head). He had just passed Mary Faye, <a id="page_83"></a>going as fast as he could, standing up. Then he sat back down and turned about one foot short of the edge of the driveway. The front wheel dipped into the ditch; the bike stopped; and he made a arc through the air—landing full on his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I got to him he was sitting on the ground looking at his right hand like he’d never seen it before. His thumb was drooped down like a broke tree limb, and where it connected to his hand looked like a golf ball.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye was standing there. “That thumb is broke, Norris. You can’t move it, can you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris looked up at her, then at me, then at his thumb, and started bawling. I gathered myself as best I could. “Come on,” I said. “We’ll take you to emergency, right now. Do you hurt anywhere else?” All I could do was take him to the emergency room. That was the only thing to do. His hand looked awful.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris said No he wadn’t hurting anywhere else, and stood up slow, crying, holding his hurt hand up and in front with his other hand like he was carrying a bunch of flowers.</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t walked no more than ten steps when a Yellow Cab pulls into the driveway. It was like the ocean had pulled in and was about to drown everything. I just stopped and stood there. “Oh <em>no</em>,” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll stay right here,” I said. It was clear I had to take over. I’d have to do what Mama would do, which was take over. I walked to the driver’s side of the taxi. The driver was a pale little man with short red and gray hair, a scrawny mustache, and no teeth. “Howdy,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Howdy, ma’am.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I looked through at Uncle Nate sitting on the passenger side. His head was down like he was asleep. “Uncle Nate, you <a id="page_84"></a>ought to be ashamed of yourself.” He didn’t even look up. “Mary Faye, ya’ll go on up and sit down on the porch. No, wait a minute. Go in and call Aunt Minnie and tell her to tell Mama, when she gets there, to come back home and sit with Uncle Nate—that it looks like Norris broke his thumb and I got to take him to emergency. Tell her his thumb is all that’s hurt. Tell her it might just be out of place. Ask Aunt Minnie if she minds being a little late for the barbecue.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know the number.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s in that address thing—under Minnie.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir,” I said to the cab driver. “Can you wait one minute while I figure out what to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No problem. Meter’s running.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, I ought to call the sheriff right now. If I didn’t have to take care of Norris, I would.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked up. “Where’s Doris at?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s on the way to Aunt Minnie’s, to sit with Uncle Newton.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How’s ole Newt?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s okay, I guess. He’s <em>sober</em>. That’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Me and Newt were in the war together,” Uncle Nate said to the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, he don’t care. Can you get out? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. I’m in the middle of Norris’s broke thumb and here you show up, drunk, and probably without one cent. Have you got any money?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stuck his hand down in his front pocket.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He said his sister would pay,” said the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I figured,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye came out. “The line’s busy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris was sitting on the front steps. He started crying, and <a id="page_85"></a>then hollering. “Oh, it’s starting to hurt! Ohhhh!” He was holding his hand down between his legs, rocking back and forth, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Elevate it—hold it up,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They might have to take it off,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was standing there in the front yard, knowing I had to make a decision. I decided Uncle Nate would have to go to the emergency room with us. There was nothing else to do. I went around to the passenger side and opened the door. Or I could call the sheriff. Or I could send him over to Uncle Newton’s in the taxi and let Mama look after him. No, that would get Uncle Newton all upset. But Uncle Nate was about asleep. That was good. I figured if he’d stay in the car at emergency, everything would be okay.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir, would you please help me get him in the back seat of my car over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yeah, I’ll help,” said the cab driver. “That’s a broke thumb if ever I seen one.” He’d caught a glimpse of Norris’s thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know. I’ve got to get him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We got Uncle Nate out of the taxi and into the back seat of my car. He went right on down, laying on his side in the seat with his feet in the floor. His shirt tail was out on the side and his hair was pushed up in back with little flecks of white thread or something all in there.</p>

  <p class="indent">I paid the taxi driver; Norris and Mary Faye got in the car, up front with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stopped crying about halfway to the emergency room, and when we turned into the hospital driveway, Uncle Nate sat up. “Is Newt up here?” he said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Newton’s at home, Uncle Nate. Norris hurt his thumb and we’re having to take him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_86"></a>“Less see that thumb, boy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris held up his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, that ain’t nothing.” He leaned up right behind me. “Raney.” I could smell his breath. I was almost afraid of him. I had this flash thought of him grabbing me around the neck, although Uncle Nate is normally pretty gentle, drunk or sober, except when he’s drunk and gets mad and cusses. “Raney, where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at Uncle Newton’s. I told you a minute ago.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We pulled the car up close to the emergency room door and stopped. “Now, Uncle Nate, you stay right here. I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Does Mary Faye and Norris remember me and Newt were in the war together?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yessir,” I said. “Now please stay in the the back seat, Uncle Nate. Will you do that? I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I certainly will. You know I love you, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I got out and came around and opened the door for Norris. He had stopped crying. He got out, holding his hand up with that thumb dangling, and we all started in, except for Uncle Nate. I looked back. He was sitting with his head slumped over.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the emergency room door, I said, “Mary Faye, stand right here at the door, and if Uncle Nate gets out of the car, you come in and tell me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to go in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mary Faye.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I won’t know where you’re at,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, what are they going to do to it?” says Norris, looking up at me with bloodshot eyes.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Norris.” I looked at Mary Faye. “Do what you have to do, Mary Faye—for goodness sakes. They’re going to fix it, Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_87"></a>We all three went in through the door. Some people were sitting in chairs and there was a big nurse across the room at a desk. Two nigger orderlies were sitting behind her—smoking cigarettes and wearing those little green scarf hats with strings hanging down beside their ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked up to the desk. The nurse asked a bunch of questions and about time I finished answering them all I hear this loud, banging crash behind me at the door. I look, and there’s Uncle Nate: sitting on the floor, half in and half out the emergency room door. Some woman wearing a dress, brown shoes, and white socks jumped up and rushed over to him. I started toward him, but Norris almost hollered, “Raney, wait a minute, what are they going to do? It hurts!” The orderlies stood up to look at Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman with white socks said, “This man needs help! His eyeballs is rolled back!” The orderlies started running toward Uncle Nate, pushing a table-bed. I heard the woman say, “I think he had a stroke,” and before I could say anything—Norris was holding on to my arm with his good hand—the orderlies had Uncle Nate on the bed, rolling him right by me. “Wait a minute, he’s my uncle!” I said. They stopped. And here Uncle Nate sort of came around and started cussing the orderlies terrible.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate stop that right now or I’m going to call Dorcus Kerr to come get you and take you to jail. You all unstrap him from there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That woman said he had a stroke,” said one orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t let him off there,” said the other one.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you were with this boy,” said the nurse to me.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_88"></a>“Raney, I don’t want to get it operated on,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You <em>better</em> be <em>quiet</em>,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m with both of them,” I said to the nurse. “This one’s drunk; he didn’t have a stroke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the orderlies pulled a strap tighter on Uncle Nate. Uncle Nate was cussing him awful. “And where you got Newt?” he said to the one closest to his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t got no Newt. What you talking about, man?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young woman, we’re not equipped to handle alcoholism,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I didn’t bring him to the emergency room,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who brought this man?” said the nurse to everybody in the emergency room. Then she said to me. “Is your mother here?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris pulled at my arm. The woman with the white socks came walking up. “I thought he might a had a stroke,” she said. “His eyes was rolled back and all. It was that way with my granddaddy. He had a stroke last year and when—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I brought him,” I said, “but I left him in the car and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney!” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Somebody has to take care of his thumb,” I said to the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got papers in on him,” said the nurse. “The doctor will be here in a minute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you feel?” said the woman with socks—to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel like if I don’t get off this goddamned table in five seconds, I’m gone whip ass when I do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m gonna strap your ass down so tight your eyeballs’ll pop out,” said the orderly. “Then I’m calling the police.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_89"></a>“<em>I’ll</em> call the law,” I said. “You don’t know who to call.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The hell I don’t.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Jerry,” said the nurse. “I’ll call Security.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Call the goddamned Security,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was Mary Faye and Norris standing there hearing all that.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, please be quiet. You’re in trouble. Don’t make it worse.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was in trouble when I was born.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not like you gonna be,” said the orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stop egging him on,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked the doctor, thank the Lord. The nurse was on the phone: “Donald, send somebody to emergency. We’ve got a man disturbing the peace.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s his name?” said the doctor. He was picking up a clipboard.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ask her,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">The doctor looked at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate,” I said. “Nate Purvis.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s your uncle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me see that thumb, Nate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Norris,” Norris said, his eyes great big.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Excuse me, Norris. Let me see that thumb.” He held Norris by the wrist and turned his hand around. “Hummm. Let’s go get an x-ray. <em>This</em> man is your uncle, then,” he said to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir, and he’s drunk. He shouldn’t even be in here. I left him outside.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Have you got a car?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_90"></a>“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Joe Cisco,” he said. He smiled and reached out his hand. “Looks like you could use a little help.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I took his hand, tried my best to hold back, but I couldn’t help crying. I straightened right back up though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be right back and we can get him in your car,” he said. Then he took Norris down the hall; Norris looked back over his shoulder—still holding that hand up like he was carrying flowers; the nurse asked the orderlies to sit down; and then Dr. Cisco came back while they were taking the x-ray. He helped me roll Uncle Nate to the car, then get him off the table and in the back seat—with no trouble, since Uncle Nate had passed out. I saw the empty pint in Uncle Nate’s back pocket. I hadn’t thought to look before. When a security guard walked up, Dr. Cisco explained that everything was all right. Dr. Cisco was a blessing from heaven.</p>

  <p class="indent">He told us to wait in the car and that after he took care of Norris he’d bring him out. Sometimes I get to thinking there’s not one nice person left in the world and then somebody like Dr. Cisco comes along.</p>

  <p class="indent">It turned out that Norris’s thumb was just out of place. It must have been very out of place. Dr. Cisco taped it up over a piece of metal and told me to bring him back in a week unless a problem came up. He stood there at the car and talked a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate won’t so simple. He begged me to take him to the liquor store, saying he just needed one more little drink to hold him over. I did not take him, of course.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got home he was asleep or passed out. I left him in the car while I called Mama. She called Juanita Bowles to come sit with Uncle Newton and then came on home. We had a terrible time getting Uncle Nate up the front steps.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_91"></a>Daddy came home right after we got Uncle Nate in the door. “Nate, you’re going to get drunk one time too many and get robbed <em>and</em> shot instead of just robbed,” said Daddy. Uncle Nate’s billfold is always empty when he comes home drunk. Uncle Nate started cussing Daddy, which is the first time that’s ever happened, as far as I know.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama called Dorcus Kerr who came out and arrested Uncle Nate. There was nothing else to do. Uncle Nate spent three days in jail, drying out. That’s how long it takes. Mama took him every one of his meals except his last one which was Tuesday lunch. I had to be uptown anyway so I told Mama I could do it and then bring him home when they let him out at three in the afternoon. I’m old enough now.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dorcus Kerr was at the jail. “I declare, I hate to see this happen, Raney,” he said. “When he’s sober he’s one of the nicest men I know, but I declare, then he has to go and do the way he does; and you all have always been so good to him—your daddy giving him work and all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t see anybody else in any of the jail cells except Uncle Nate. He was sitting in a chair, leaning back against the wall. His hair was combed straight back with Vitalis, like always, and he was wearing a freshly starched white shirt Mama had brought him. Mr. Kerr opened the door with a big set of keys.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hey, girl,” said Uncle Nate. “Where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He looked okay except for his eyes which were red and cloudy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_92"></a>“How do you feel?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel pretty good. Raney, I’m sorry. You know I wouldn’t do anything in the world to hurt you all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know you wouldn’t, Uncle Nate.” I started to say, “But you <em>do—over and over and over.</em>” Then I saw his hand shaking while he pulled at his ear.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made a decision this time. I’m quitting. I’m getting the shakes. Look at my hands. I can’t get them any stiller than that. I’m just going to have to tell myself to quit and then do it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know you can’t take that first drink, Uncle Nate. It’s all over when you do that. You’ve got to have the strength to say no. There’s plenty of people who do it. And Mama has done everything she can, as you well know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has. She has. She sure has.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m glad you’re going to stop, Uncle Nate. You’ve said that before, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“This is the first time I’ve had the shakes like this. Look at that.” He looked at his hands, then at me. “How is Newton? Didn’t somebody take him to the hospital Sunday—or Saturday?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nobody took him to the hospital, but he’s not doing too good. That was Norris I took. He knocked his thumb out of joint, but it’s doing okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a little fighter, ain’t he?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He sure is. Here, you better eat your dinner. I’ll be back at three. I need to do a little shopping. You need anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some Scholl’s footpads. Size 9-C.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I came back at three and picked up Uncle Nate and took him by home and then on out to the store. He usually works <a id="page_93"></a>out there in the afternoons. He’s never been able to do any more than just help out, of course, but it helps Daddy be able to come and go and oversee instead of being there with Sneeds all the time—one of them tending pumps while the other works inside. When Daddy had a chance to get all self-service pumps he turned them down, so he needs Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_94"></a></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-06-14 20:43:08 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:08 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-06-14 20:43:10 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:11 INFO  - Step 27 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA
2023-06-14 20:43:11 INFO  - Button 'setThemeSepia' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:12 INFO  - Step 28 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA background is correct
2023-06-14 20:43:13 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-14 20:43:13 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-14 20:43:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:14 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Raney</title>
  <link href="../Styles/9781616202132.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
<p><a id="part01"></a></p>
  <h2 class="h2" id="part1"><a id="page_1"></a>PART ONE<br />
  <br />
  <em>Blood Kin</em></h2>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_2"></a></p>

  <p class="center"><a id="page_3"></a>LISTRE, NORTH CAROLINA<br />
  APRIL 18, 1975</p>

  <p class="centert"><small>FROM THE</small> <em>Hansen County Pilot</em>:</p>

  <p class="noindent">BETHEL—Mr. and Mrs. Thurman A. Bell announce the engagement of their daughter, Raney, to Charles C. Shepherd of Atlanta, Georgia. Mr. Bell owns the Hope Road General Store and the family attends Bethel Baptist Church. Raney graduated from Chester F. Knowles High School where she was in the school band and various other activities. She attended Listre Community College.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles Shepherd, the son of Dr. and Mrs. William Shepherd of Atlanta, is the assistant librarian at Listre Community College. Dr. Shepherd is a college professor, while Mrs. Shepherd is a public school teacher.</p>

  <p class="indent">A June 7th wedding is planned at Bethel Baptist Church. A reception will follow in the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">The couple plans to honeymoon at Myrtle Beach and live in Listre at 209 Catawba Drive.</p>

  <h3 class="h3a" id="heading_id_2"><a id="page_4"></a>I</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We get married in two days: Charles and me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s parents are staying at the Ramada—wouldn’t stay with any of us—and today me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie ate lunch with Charles’s mother, Mrs. Shepherd. And found out that she’s, of all things, a vegetarian.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at the K and W. Mrs. Shepherd wanted to eat at some place we could sit down and order—like a restaurant—but Aunt Naomi strongly suggested the K and W. She said the K and W would be more reasonable and the line wouldn’t be long on a Thursday. So we ate at the K and W.</p>

  <p class="indent">I got meatloaf, Mama got meatloaf (they have unusually good meatloaf—not bready at all), Aunt Naomi got turkey, Aunt Flossie got roast beef, and Mrs. Shepherd, Mrs. Shepherd didn’t get any meat at all. She got the vegetable plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got seated Mama says, “I order the vegetable plate every once in a while myself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, did you get the vegetable plate?” says Aunt Naomi to Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I’ve stopped eating meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all looked at her.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got involved in a group in Atlanta which was putting together programs on simple living and after a few programs I became convinced that being a vegetarian—me, that is—made sense.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Somehow I thought people were <em>born</em> as vegetarians. I never thought about somebody just <em>changing over</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_5"></a>“What kind of group was that?” asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Several Episcopal women. I’m originally Methodist, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Naomi!” says this woman walking by holding her tray. “Good gracious, is this all your family?” Her husband went ahead and sat down about three tables over—picked a chair with arms.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It sure is,” says Aunt Naomi. “Let me introduce you. Opal Register, this is my sister-in-law, Doris Bell.” (That’s Mama.) “You know Doris, don’t you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, yes. I think we met in here one time. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is her daughter, Raney, who’s getting married Saturday.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mercy me,” says Mrs. Register. She had on big glasses with a chain, little brown curls on the top of her head, and too much lipstick. “You’re at the start of a wonderful journey, honey,” she says. “It was thirty-seven years for me and Carl the twenty-first of last month. I hope your journey is as happy and fulfilling as ours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Mrs. Millie Shepherd, the groom’s—groom-to-be’s—mother. She’s up from Atlanta, Georgia.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” says Mrs. Register.</p>

  <p class="indent">“And this is Flossie Purvis, Doris’s sister. And ya’ll, this is Opal and Carl Register,” said Aunt Naomi, pointing toward Mr. Register who had started eating over at his table. He smiled, with food in his mouth. You couldn’t see any though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta!” said Mrs. Register again. “You don’t know C. C. Lawrence, do you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think I do,” said Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“C. C. works at one of the big banks in Atlanta. He got a <a id="page_6"></a>law degree and a business degree—one right after the other. His mama and daddy didn’t think he’d ever finish—and them working at Liggett and Myers. He went—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Opal,” Mr. Register calls out. “Sit down and eat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, nice to have met you,” said Mrs. Register. “Good luck on that wonderful journey, honey,” she says to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Mrs. Register was out of hearing distance, Mama says, “Mr. Register just had a prostrate operation and I don’t think he’s recovered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Prostate,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is it?” says Mama. “Prostate? Oh. You know, I’ve always liked him better than her. She always makes so much out of every little thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The conversation went from the Registers to prostrate operations back around to eating meat.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” says Aunt Naomi, “once in a while I’ve gone without meat, but I got so weak I thought I’d pass out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, that happens a bit at first,” Mrs. Shepherd says. “But after a few days that usually goes away. It’s a matter of what you get used to, I think. The body adjusts.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d be afraid I couldn’t get enough proteins,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “There are many protein substitutes for meat. Beans—soybeans, for example—are excellent.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“My next door neighbor, Lillie Cox, brought me some hamburger with soybean in it,” said Aunt Naomi, “when I had the flu last winter, and it tasted like cardboard. She’s always trying out the latest thing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I couldn’t do without my meat,” says Mama. She was fishing through her tossed salad for cucumber—and putting it on <a id="page_7"></a>her plate. “I’d be absolutely lost without sausage for breakfast. Cole’s sausage. The mild, not the hot. Do they have Cole’s in Atlanta?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so. I really don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you get the patties or the links?” Aunt Naomi asks Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“The patties—Thurman don’t like the links; they roll off his plate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed. Even Mrs. Shepherd, so Mama stretched it out. “Every time we go to Kiwanis for the pancake supper he’ll lose one or two links. Because of the way he eats his pancakes—pushes them all around in the syrup. Last time one rolled up under the edge of Sam Lockamy’s plate, and for a minute there we couldn’t find it. Then Sam swore it was his.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I guess you have less cholesterol if you don’t eat meat,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There are health advantages,” said Mrs. Shepherd. “And also our women’s group has been concentrating on how eating less meat can help curtail hunger in the third world.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“On another <em>planet</em>?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, no. Developing nations,” says Mrs. Shepherd. She finished chewing and swallowed. “Developing nations.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I don’t understand,” says Aunt Naomi, “is that if they don’t eat their own cows, like in India, then why should we send them ours? They wouldn’t eat ours, would they? Or maybe they <em>would</em> eat American meat.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We wouldn’t send meat to India, of course; we’d send grain and other staple goods. The fewer cows we eat the less grain we’ll need to feed cows, so there will be a greater grain surplus.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_8"></a>Aunt Naomi blew her nose on this Kleenex she had been fumbling with. She had a cold. She can get more nose blows on one Kleenex than anybody I ever saw. She always ends up with this tiny corner which she slowly spreads out, then blows her nose into.</p>

  <p class="indent">We’d finished eating so I said, “Aunt Naomi, you get more nose blows out of one Kleenex than anybody I’ve ever seen in my life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I probably won’t be able to sing Sunday,” she said. She sings in the church choir. “This cold just drags on and on and on.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ain’t it nice the way Raney and Charles play music together,” says Mama to Mrs. Shepherd. I was relieved to get off the meat subject.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, it is,” says Mrs. Shepherd.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think it’s wonderful,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They sound real good together,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Music is what brought me and Charles together. He plays banjo and collects old songs from the mountains. When I sang for the faculty at the college Christmas dinner he was there—he’s the assistant librarian—and he came up afterward and complimented my singing. He was real nice about it. And has been ever since. Charles is the kind of person who is real natural around people—and is smart as he can be.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I met him again when I went to the library to check out a record. They have a good collection, thanks to Charles. One thing led to another and the first thing you know we’re playing music together. We’ve had three or four performances. Kiwanis and such. Charles calls them gigs.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles sent me a tape,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You two <a id="page_9"></a>sound really good together. You have a beautiful voice, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I thanked her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is learning to sing too. We harmonize on two or three songs. He’s improving gradually. He plays good banjo. He don’t <em>look</em> like a banjo picker, but he sounds good.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know what I’m going to do without Raney singing around the house, and helping out with Norris and Mary Faye,” says Mama, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mama, I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s a big gap between me and my little brother, Norris, and sister, Mary Faye. Norris is eight and Mary Faye is eleven. Mary Faye picks on Norris all the time, but sometimes he deserves it.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How many children do you have, Mrs. Shepherd?” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“One,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Please call me Millie,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “All of you,” she says, and smiles. “You too, Raney, if you’re comfortable with that. I have only one,” she says. “Charles is the only one.”</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_3">II</h3>

  <p class="noindent">You would think a man could get married without getting drunk, especially after I explained that nobody in my family drunk alcohol except Uncle Nate, who was in the Navy in World War II, but got burned in combat on over fifty percent <a id="page_10"></a>of his body, and caught pneumonia and had to be discharged from the Pacific. He had to stay in the hospital for three and a half months. Now he has asthma spells.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate comes to our house in a taxi at any hour of the day or night, drunk, cussing his former wife, who’s dead—Joanne. And when I say drunk, I mean so drunk he can’t get up the front steps without me and Mama and sometimes the taxi driver helping him. And smell?—Uncle Nate I’m talking about—whew. A sweat-whisky smell that lingers in the house as solid as flower smells at a funeral—lingers long after Mama’s undressed him, got him in the tub, and piled his clothes on the back porch. And the thing is, he don’t ever get asthma when he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye and Norris have to stand there in the middle of all that, being influenced in no telling what ways.</p>

  <p class="indent">When Uncle Nate’s sober he’s my favorite uncle. I love his stories about when he was growing up with Mama and Aunt Flossie and Uncle Norris (who lives in Charlotte) and their Uncle Pugg. And he always gives me presents and says I’m his favorite niece.</p>

  <p class="indent">He’s always lived with us and worked at Daddy’s store part time. His lung troubles make him disabled, so he gets a check every month from the government. They think he inhaled so much smoke he’ll never recover. The scars are mostly on his body under his clothes so you can’t ever see them except on his left wrist and under his left ear. He never talks about it except to Uncle Newton, who was in the war, too. Sometimes his asthma gets so bad he has to sit perfectly still for three or four hours. So he can’t get a job anywhere, of course—except helping Daddy out at the store. Daddy says he makes a big difference and is very dependable—unless he’s drunk.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_11"></a>I don’t know what Mama will do about getting him out of the taxi and up the steps since I’ll be living here in Listre. Mary Faye and Norris will have to help. But Mama hates for them to be exposed to such.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles <em>knew</em> all about Uncle Nate and how I—how my whole family—feels about drinking.</p>

  <p class="indent">So at the rehearsal Friday night everything was going fine except Mama caught Norris hiding in the baptism place and made him sit on the front row. She’d already caught him once. I told him the water would flow in there and drown him if he didn’t watch out. Mary Faye was one of my attendants and being as smart as she could be.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’m standing in the back of the church with Daddy and Flora, my cousin, who directed the wedding, and I notice that Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, from Maryland, who I had never met until that night, keeps going outside. And Charles keeps following him. Phil, Jim, Dale, and Crafton—my cousins—were of course staying in their places like they were supposed to. Flora gives me a little push and I start down the aisle with Daddy. Charles is standing with this red-faced grin. When Preacher Gordon says you may kiss the bride, I turned to Charles and there were these little red blood vessels in his left eye that looked like red thread and all of a sudden I caught a whiff of you-know-what. It hit me. It all suddenly fell together. I thought they had been going outside to <em>talk</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The thing you won’t believe is: Charles’s daddy looked lit too.</p>

  <p class="indent">I did not kiss Charles. I kept my lips clamped. I grabbed him by the arm and led him right up the aisle and out the front door. Madora Bryant, my maid of honor, and some of the other girls were clapping as hard as they could. They couldn’t <a id="page_12"></a>tell what was really happening. When I got him out on the front porch—right beside the bell rope—I said: (now I was really tore up) “Charles, I have told you for months about the condition Uncle Nate has put our family in with alcohol, and you promised me you would not have a bachelor party and get drunk and here you are, drunk, under the nose of Preacher Gordon, Mama, Daddy, Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and my bridesmaids and Mary Faye and Norris and I will never forget this as long as I live.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney,” he says, “first of all, I am not having a bachelor party, and second of all, I am not drunk. I am not doing anybody any harm. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not doing any harm? Charles, I—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, Buddy drove all the way down here from Baltimore, Maryland, and he has one little pint of something in his car, and we were in the <em>war</em> together and if you will just relax. And he’s the <em>only</em> one of my close friends in the wedding. All these damn cousins of yours.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, please do not start cussing right here on church property. And if you are mad about my cousins being in the wedding I would have appreciated you saying something about that before now—like while I was spending all my time getting this whole thing planned.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles’s daddy, Dr. Shepherd, walks up. I could not believe what was happening, yet I dared not make a scene in front of him. I was thinking that if Mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie found out about all this drinking I would die.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, honey,” Dr. Shepherd says, “you look adorable.” He’s a big man and wears those glasses without any rims—shaped <a id="page_13"></a>like stop signs. He’s a math professor, of all things. A doctor. And Mrs. Shepherd is a school teacher. They use these long words I know Mama and Daddy don’t know. And they should know Mama and Daddy don’t know them. But they’ll go on back down to Atlanta after the wedding and we won’t see them except maybe a few times a year. Charles says they belong to a country club and all that. What gets me is that Charles said he explained to them about us being Christians and not drinking which I didn’t even know we <em>had</em> to explain until Madora told me that Charles’s parents would probably be used to drinking spiked punch at weddings and what were we going to do?</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t thought about it. I’ve never been to a wedding where they drink liquor in the punch. I mean there’s usually a preacher at a wedding and it’s usually at a church. But Madora explained how rich people—or at least Episcopalians and Catholics and sometimes Methodists—will get married in church and then ride over to a country club or someplace where they all drink up a storm.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dr. Shepherd stands there kind of flushed and glassy-eyed and tells me how proud he is—and he laughs at everything he says, funny or not—and I’ll be durn if he didn’t reach up right then and there and pull the church bell rope and ring the bell. I could just see old Mrs. Bledsoe, down the road, figure it was not Friday night at all, but Wednesday night—prayer meeting night—instead, and get all upset and maybe grab <em>Mr</em>. Bledsoe, who can’t hear, and cart him off to a prayer meeting which don’t exist. Not to mention all the other people in hearing distance.</p>

  <p class="indent">The rehearsal dinner was in the education building around <a id="page_14"></a>behind the church. I walked down the church steps between Charles and his daddy—their arms locked through mine—not able to say a word, and hot behind my ears with embarrassment at the prospect of a scandal.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the education building there was Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—standing at the door, smiling.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Smooth as could be,” she said, and kissed Dr. Shepherd on the lips—right there in the door to the education building.</p>

  <p class="indent">Inside, there were two long tables and a head table. Aunt Naomi was in charge. She had got Betty Winnberry to cater. Steaks. T-bone steaks. French fries. The works. I had hoped all along it wouldn’t be tacky—like paper tablecloths, which Aunt Naomi was talking about along at first. I’m certainly not going to be cow-tied to any fancy ways of the Shepherds, but I did want things to be proper for everybody concerned.</p>

  <p class="indent">On the tables were about twelve or thirteen red-checkered, overlapped tablecloths that Aunt Flossie had borrowed from Penny’s Grill (and had to wash and dry later that night in order to get them back to the grill in time for Penny to serve breakfast. They open at six <small>A.M</small>.). And over in the corner Mack Lumley was sitting on a bale of hay playing his guitar. He didn’t charge but ten dollars, and furnished the hay, too. Somebody suggested me and Charles sing, but I think singing at your own wedding wouldn’t be right.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie had put together the prettiest flower arrangement—right in the middle of the head table: roses, daisies, and Queen Anne’s lace, and pittosporum and nandina for greenery.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before supper, Charles and Buddy went out for you-know-what, I guess. I had to keep smiling and be as nice as I could to everybody. The supper <em>was</em> meaningful, but while I <a id="page_15"></a>was cutting a piece of T-bone steak I bent over to Charles and whispered: “Charles, I will never forget this.” But Charles just turned to Daddy and started talking about the Braves. They always talk about the Braves. As soon as they see one another they start talking about the Braves. I wanted to say, “Daddy, don’t you see what Charles is doing? How can you sit there and talk about the Braves while Charles is doing what he’s doing?” But I didn’t say anything. Lord knows, there was disturbance enough.</p>

  <p class="indent">I had spent all that time working out the arrangements and Charles wrote all the invitations by hand—he has this beautiful handwriting—and we had talked all about his new library job and our house and our future and how everything was going to work out, and he had been so good about running little errands. Then this.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles is very intelligent, and good looking in his own way—his head is slightly large, but I think it just seems that way because his shoulders are narrow—and, oh, we had one or two little fusses getting ready for the wedding, but no more than you’d shake a stick at. And we’ve been playing music at different gatherings right along through all this—getting better and better and having lots of fun. Charles learns real fast and we like the same music mostly.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then I end up sitting at my own wedding rehearsal dinner fussing at Charles for doing the one thing I was hoping against hope wouldn’t happen ever since Madora explained about how some people get drunk at weddings. We had talked about drinking several times, and I had this feeling of not being able to get a clear picture of how Charles felt. He talks a lot about “psychology.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_16"></a>The actual wedding itself went off without a hitch. It was the most wonderful day of my life. Charles was perfect. Dr. and Mrs. Shepherd were perfect. Mary Faye and Norris were perfect. Mama and Daddy were perfect. Mama wore a long dress—pink—and she was real pretty, except her hair-do was a little tight. Daddy looked the way he always does at church: out of place in a suit, and his head white where his hat goes, and his face red. (He <em>looks</em> like he has high blood pressure, but it’s normal and always has been.) Right before we walked down the aisle, he said, “Honey, I’m real happy for you. Charles is a good man.” His chin was quivering, and two tears rolled down his cheeks. He was holding my hand, which was something I don’t remember him doing since I was a little girl. Daddy don’t show much emotion.</p>

  <p class="indent">A bunch of people said it was the nicest wedding they had ever been to. I was just flushed throughout the whole thing. It went exactly according to plans. Charles was handsomer than I’ve ever seen him. The shoulders in his tux were padded.</p>

  <p class="indent">The wedding was fairly short and we all went straight to the reception in the education building <em>without</em> getting our pictures made, so people wouldn’t have to wait. Mama was real worried about us not getting a photographer, but Mack Lumley did it for only ten dollars over cost.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama and Mrs. Shepherd—Millie—cried several times each, and so did Flora and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie, and two or three times Dr. Shepherd gave Millie a long hug right in front of everybody. Charles’s friend, Buddy Shellar, spent some time talking to Mary Faye and Norris. I thought that <a id="page_17"></a>was nice. Buddy and my cousins fixed up our car with tin cans and shaving cream; we changed clothes; Sylvia Curtis caught the bouquet; we ran to Charles’s Dodge Dart under all that rice, and headed for Myrtle Beach.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Now. The honeymoon. I do not have the nerve to explain everything that happened on the first night there in the Holiday Inn. We had talked about it some before—or Charles had talked about it. And we had, you know, necked the same as any engaged couple. And I had told Charles way back, of course, that I wanted my marriage consumed <em>after</em> I was married. Not before. Because if it was consumed before, then I would have to carry the thought of that throughout my entire life and it’s hard to undo that which has already been done.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ve read books. I’ve had talks with my mama. And I’ve read the Bible. You’d think that would prepare a woman for her wedding night.</p>

  <p class="indent">It didn’t. First of all, Charles had rib-eye steaks rolled into our room on this metal table with drawers which could keep the steaks warm. And there in the middle of the table was a dozen red roses. All that was nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">But in this silver bucket with ice and a white towel was, of all things, a bottle of champagne.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a predicament for me, because on the one hand it was all so wonderful, and Charles had planned it all out like the man is supposed to do—I mean, my dream was being fulfilled. Charles was getting things right. But on the other hand, there in the middle of the table rearing its ugly head, as they say, was a bottle of champagne. I’ve seen enough bottles of champagne after the World Series on TV (when the ballplayers <a id="page_18"></a>make fools out of themselves and cuss over the airways) to know one when I see it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, I’m not a prude. Getting drunk at your wedding is one thing, but I can understand a little private celebrating, maybe—as a symbol of something wonderful happening. Something symbolic. So I didn’t say anything about the champagne. It’s very hard to find fault on your wedding night with a dozen red roses staring you full in the face—even though a still, small voice was warning me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles poured me a glass and I said to myself, Why not just a sip, like medicine, and I tried a sip, but that’s all. It tasted like Alka Selzer with honey in it. I politely refused anymore. And didn’t think Charles would drink over a glass. (I figured you couldn’t buy it except in the bottle, and that’s why he got it that way.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and Charles pushed the table, with the dishes, out into the hall. I said excuse me, went into the bathroom, put on my negligee and got ready, you know, and came back out to find Charles standing there in his Fruit of the Loom, drinking champagne out of a plastic cup. It was a terrible scene to remember.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was planning to do what Mama explained to me: get in the bed and let Charles carry out his duties. And I was thinking that’s what Charles would be planning to do. But. He had a different idea which I do not have the nerve to explain. It turned into an argument which finally turned into a sort of Chinese wrestling match with my nerves tore all to pieces. Charles kept saying nothing was in the Bible about what married people could or couldn’t do. I finally cried, and Charles said he was sorry. It was awful. I cried again the next morning <a id="page_19"></a>and Charles said he was sorry again. This may be something I can forgive but I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. Not for a long time.</p>

  <p class="indentt">On the second day, we didn’t say much at breakfast, or after. We went to the beach for a while, ate hot dogs for lunch, and then came back to change clothes. Charles asked the manager about us playing music in the motel lounge that night. (We took our instruments in case we got a chance to play.) When he found out we’d do it free the manager said fine.</p>

  <p class="indent">So on the second night, rather than going to this country music show like we’d planned, we met the manager in the lounge. Charles wore bluejeans and I wore my blue-checkered blouse, jeans, and cowgirl hat. The manager came in and lit all the candles in these orange candle vases. There were only three or four people there. The only thing I didn’t like about it was that they served beer. But the bartender went out of his way to be nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">We decided to play half an hour and see if we could draw an audience. We started with several banjo pieces and then I sang “This World Is Not My Home” and “I’ll Fly Away.” I like the way those two songs fit together. It gives me something to talk about when I introduce them. Charles is good about letting me talk about the songs. I have played with people who hog it all.</p>

  <p class="indent">A crowd gathered, and sure enough they liked the music and clapped and somebody requested “Your Cheating Heart” and Charles tried it. He’s been learning it for the last month or so. He forgets words pretty easy. Nobody noticed but he sang the same verse twice. He looked at me and I managed to wink in spite of the fact I was still in turmoil from the night before.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_20"></a>We had told the manager we couldn’t play past nine-thirty that night. We told him it was our honeymoon and all. The truth is we only know about two hours worth of songs. But I did want to get back up to our bed and start our marriage in the proper manner. It’s something I had been thinking about since I was sixteen or seventeen years old and the night before had <em>not</em> worked out at all like I thought it would. It had made me a bundle of nerves and I had discovered something in Charles I didn’t know existed—something corroded, and him drinking a whole bottle of champagne brought it out. He still hasn’t taken serious my principles about drinking. That first night was a awful experience which I can’t bring myself to talk about, but I must say things went better on the second night. I was able to explain to Charles how I was supposed to come out of the bathroom in my negligee, go get in the bed, get under the cover, and then he was supposed to go to the bathroom, come out, come get under the cover, and accomplish what was supposed to be accomplished. It all worked the way it was supposed to, and was wonderful, I must say.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when I came out of the shower, before we went down for breakfast, Charles was talking on the phone to his other main friend besides Buddy Shellar: Johnny Dobbs, who lives in New Orleans. They were all three in the army together.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has a great voice,” he was saying. “Raney, get your guitar. Wait a minute, Johnny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the phone receiver on the bed, got out his banjo, hit a couple of licks and said to me, “Do ‘This World Is Not My Home.’ Wait a minute, let me introduce you to Johnny.” So he did, over the phone, and Johnny sounded real nice.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_21"></a>“Charles,” I whispered, “do you know how much this is costing?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll pay for it,” he said. “I’ve been telling Johnny about your voice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I sang “This World Is Not My Home,” and Charles asked Johnny if he could hear it clear over the phone and he said he could and then Charles wanted me to do my chicken song—the one I wrote. Charles thinks it’s the funniest thing he’s ever heard. It <em>is</em> a good song, and since Charles was paying. . . . It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">The town council chairman came by late last May.<br />
  Said we’re sorry, Mr. Oakley, ‘bout what we must say.<br />
  But the airport’s expanding, we mean you no harm.<br />
  The new north-south runway’s gonna point toward your farm.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to the governor, and told him my desire:<br />
  Could you please make them airplanes fly a little bit higher.<br />
  “My chickens ain’t laying,” I tried to explain.<br />
  But my words were going north on a south-bound train.<br />
  My chickens ain’t laying; my cow has gone dry,<br />
  ’Cause the airplanes keep flying to the sweet by and by,<br />
  To the lights of the city, to the Hawaiian shore,<br />
  While I rock on my front porch and tend to get poor.<br />
  I talked to a doctor; he gave me a pill.<br />
  I talked to a lawyer; you should have seen the bill.<br />
  I talked to a librarian; he grinned and winked his eye.<br />
  And he gave me a little book called, “Chickens Can Fly.”<br />
  (Charles says the book is by B. F. Skinner) <a id="page_22"></a><br />
  I read the little book. Taught my chickens to fly,<br />
  To aim at the intakes as the jet planes flew by.<br />
  My chickens are gone now, but the answer is found:<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.<br />
  My kamakazi chickens closed the new runway down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I finished, Charles said Johnny really liked it. They talked another fifteen minutes before Charles finally hung up.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hugged Charles and said something about the night before. Charles said we ought to <em>talk</em> about our “sexual relationship” sometime, and I said okay, but Lord knows I won’t be able to <em>talk</em> about it. It’s something you’re supposed to do in a natural manner, not <em>talk</em> about. That’s why you don’t find it talked about in church and school—or at least you shouldn’t: it’s not supposed to be talked about. It’s something which is supposed to stay in the privacy of your own bedroom.</p>

  <p class="indent">Next morning when we left, the manager was at the desk and he gave us an envelope with a twenty dollar bill in it. Said it was some of the best entertainment they ever had and would we please come back and that he once worked in a hotel in Reno, and he’d heard some better, but he’d sure heard a lot worse.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_4">III</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles is in the bedroom covered up in the bed. There are eleven broken monogrammed glasses here on the kitchen floor and every window in the house is locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">This all started last Saturday afternoon when I called Mama <a id="page_23"></a>as usual. I try to call her every day. We’ve always been close and I say those television commercials about calling somebody—reaching out and touching—make sense. Belinda Osborne drives to see her mother every day—forty miles round trip—which I’m not about to do. That is too close. Three times a week is often enough. (Belinda’s mother <em>is</em> sick a lot though.)</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d like to be living closer to home and I know Mama and Daddy were disappointed that we didn’t move into the Wilkins house, and I would have, but Charles insisted we live here in Listre because it’s close to the college. I finally said okay when he promised he would still go to church with me at home in Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">But: he’s been going to church less and less, and we’ve only been married six weeks. He’ll take me to Sunday School and drop me off, still wearing his pajamas under his clothes. He’s done it twice. Deacon Brooks said since Charles was Methodist he must think he’s too good for Free Will Baptists. He pretended he was kidding, but I could tell he was serious.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, as I said, I called Mama last Saturday afternoon and she told me that she had come by with Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to see us that morning but we were gone. They came on in to use the phone to call Annie Godwin so it wouldn’t be long distance. (We don’t lock the door normally.) Aunt Naomi went to the kitchen to get a glass of water and accidentally broke one of the monogrammed glasses Cousin Emma gave us for a wedding present. Mama told me all this on the phone. I didn’t think twice about it. I figured I’d just pick up another glass next time I’m at the mall. I know where they come from.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday, the very next day, we’re eating dinner at home in Bethel with Mama, Daddy, Uncle Nate, Mary Faye, and <a id="page_24"></a>Norris. Mama fixes at least two meats, five or six vegetables, two kinds of cornbread, biscuits, chow-chow, pickles, pies, and sometimes a cake.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Where did you tell me you all were yesterday morning?” She was getting the cornbread off the stove. She’s always the last one to sit down.</p>

  <p class="indent">“At the mall,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I like where you moved the couch to,” says Mama. “It looks better. We waited for you all fifteen or twenty minutes. I’m sorry Naomi broke that glass,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">I hadn’t mentioned it to Charles. No reason to. He says—and he was serious: “Why were you all in our house?”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was mortified in my heart.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We were just using the phone,” says Mama. There was a long silence. It built up and then kept going.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pass the turnips, Mary Faye,” I said. “I couldn’t figure out what was wrong in there so I moved things around until it looked better and sure enough it was the couch. The couch was wrong.”</p>

  <p class="indent">My mama ain’t nosy. No more than any decent woman would be about her own flesh and blood.</p>

  <p class="indent">Listen. I don’t have nothing to hide. And Lord knows, Charles don’t, except maybe some of his opinions.</p>

  <p class="indent">We finished eating and set in the den and talked for a while and the subject didn’t come up again. Charles always gets fidgety within thirty minutes of when we finish eating. He has no appreciation for just setting and talking. And I don’t mean going on and on about politics or something like that; I mean just talking—talking about normal things. So since he gets fidgity, we usually cut our Sunday visits short. “Well, I guess <a id="page_25"></a>we better get on back,” I say, while Charles sits over there looking like he’s bored to death. I know Mama notices.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we’re out of the driveway, Charles says, “Raney, I think you ought to tell your mama and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie to stay out of our house unless somebody’s home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">To stay out of <em>my</em> own house.</p>

  <p class="indent">He couldn’t even wait until we were out of the driveway. And all the car windows rolled down.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got on down the road, out of hearing distance, I said, “Charles, you don’t love Mama and never did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He pulls the car over beside the PEACHES FOR SALE sign across from Parker’s pond. And stares at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">The whole thing has tore me up. “Charles,” I said, and I had to start crying, “you don’t have to hide your life from Mama and them. Or me. You didn’t have to get all upset today. You could understand if you wanted to. You didn’t have to get upset when I opened that oil bill addressed to you, either. There ain’t going to be nothing in there but a oil bill, for heaven’s sake. Why anyone would want to hide a oil bill I cannot understand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He starts hollering at me. The first time in my life anybody has set in a car and hollered at me. His blood vessels stood all out. I couldn’t control myself. It was awful. If you’ve ever been hollered at, while you are crying, by the one person you love best in the world, you know what I mean. This was a part of Charles I had never seen.</p>

  <p class="indentt">Here’s what happened yesterday. We went to Penny’s Grill for lunch. (I refuse to cook three meals a day, I don’t care what <a id="page_26"></a>Mama says.) When we got back, there was Mama’s green Ford—parked in front of the house.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Is that your mother’s Ford?” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“There.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, in front of the house? I think it might be.” That long silence from the dinner table last Sunday came back, and I hoped Mama was out in the back yard picking up apples because I knew I couldn’t stand another scene within a week. I couldn’t think of a thing to say. I didn’t want to fuss at Charles right before he talked to Mama, and I certainly wouldn’t dare fuss at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles got out of the car not saying a word and started for the house. I was about three feet behind, trying to keep up. The front door was wide open.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stopped just inside the door. I looked over his shoulder and there was Mama coming through the arched hall doorway. She stopped. She was dressed for shopping.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, where in the world have you all been?” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We been to eat,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Eating out?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “please do not come in this house if we’re not here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe what I was hearing. It was like a dream.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Charles son, I was only leaving my own daughter a note saying to meet me at the mall at two o’clock, at the fountain. The front door was open. You should lock the front door if you want to keep people out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell, a person is entitled to his own privacy. I’m entitled to my own privacy. This is my—our—house. I—”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_27"></a>“This is my own daughter’s house, son. My mama was never refused entrance to my house. She was always welcome. Every day of her life.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I was afraid Mama was going to cry. I opened my mouth but nothing came out.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mrs. Bell,” says Charles, “it seems as though you think everything <em>you</em> think is right, is right for everybody.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, “that’s what everybody thinks—in a sense. That’s even what <em>you</em> think.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles turned half around so he could see me. He looked at me, then at Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama says, “Son, I’ll be happy to buy you a new monogrammed glass if that’s what you’re so upset about. Naomi didn’t mean to break that glass. I’m going over to the mall right now. And I know where they come from.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walks past me and out the front door, stops, turns around and says, “I didn’t want any of those damned monogrammed glasses in the first place and I did the best I could to make that clear, plus that’s not the subject.” (I gave him a monogrammed blue blazer for his birthday and he cut the initials off before he’d wear it.)</p>

  <p class="indent">So now Mama’s at the mall with her feelings hurt. Charles is in the bedroom with a blanket over his head, and I’m sitting here amongst eleven broken monogrammed glasses, and every door and window locked from the inside.</p>

  <p class="indent">Evidently Charles throws things when he’s very mad. I never expected violence from Charles Shepherd. Thank God we don’t have a child to see such behavior.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We didn’t speak all afternoon, or at supper—I fixed hot <a id="page_28"></a>dogs, split, with cheese and bacon stuck in—or after. I went to bed at about ten o’clock, while Charles sat in the living room reading some book. I felt terrible about Mama’s feelings being hurt like I know they were; I hadn’t known whether to call her or not; I couldn’t with Charles there; and I couldn’t imagine what had got into Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I went to bed and was trying to go to sleep, with my mind full of upsetting images, when I heard this <em>voice</em> coming out of the heating vent at the head of the bed on my side. I sat up. I thought at first it was somebody under the house. I let my head lean down over the side of the bed close to the vent. It was <em>Charles</em>—talking on the phone in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now if we’d been on speaking terms I would have told him I could hear him, but we weren’t speaking. And besides, I won’t about to get out of bed for no reason at eleven <small>P.M</small>. And so I didn’t have no choice but to listen, whether I wanted to or not.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was talking to his Johnny friend. I could hear just about everything he said. If we had been speaking, I wouldn’t have hesitated to tell him how the sound came through the vent. But we weren’t speaking, as I said. He was talking about—you guessed it: Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“. . . She just broke in, in essence . . . just walked through the door when nobody was home. . . . It’s weird, Johnny. . . . What am I supposed to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Now why didn’t he ask <em>me</em> what he was supposed to do? He didn’t marry Johnny Dobbs.</p>

  <p class="indent">I agree that some things need to be left private—but the <em>living room</em>? The living room is where everybody comes into the house. That’s one of the last places to keep private on earth. <a id="page_29"></a>I just can’t connect up Charles’s idea about privacy to the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">He went on about Mama for awhile and then said something about everybody saying “nigger,” and that when Johnny came to see us for him not to drive in after dark—which I didn’t understand until it dawned on me that maybe Johnny Dobbs was a, you know, black. He didn’t sound like it when I talked to him over the phone at Myrtle Beach. Charles and his other army buddy, Buddy Shellar, at the wedding kept talking about “Johnny this” and “Johnny that” but I never thought about Johnny being anything other than a regular white person. They were all three in the army, which of course everybody knows has been segregated since 1948, according to Charles, so I guess it’s possible they roomed together, or at least ate together.</p>

  <p class="indent">He didn’t sound, you know, black.</p>

  <p class="indent">I’ll ask Charles about it when we’re on speaking terms and I tell him about how the sound comes through the vent; but if he <em>is</em> a nigger, he can’t stay here. It won’t work. The Ramada, maybe, but not here.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_5">IV</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Flossie called last Wednesday—said to come by and pick up some fresh peanut butter cookies. She lives in a little four-room house between Listre and Bethel—and cooks apple pies for Penny’s Grill on the side. Her kitchen is always smelling <a id="page_30"></a>like cinnamon and sugar-cooked apples. Charles can’t get over how good her apple pies are. He asked her for the recipe and he don’t even cook.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m cooking an extra apple pie,” she says. “I’ll be done in a few minutes and you can have a hot piece with some ice cream.” Aunt Flossie has a way about her that makes me feel free to talk. She seems like she’s used to talking, even though she lives by herself. When something hard to talk about comes up, there’s a little sparkle in her eyes—and she loves to tell stories almost as much as Uncle Nate. I went right over there.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” she said, “when Frank and me got married it was like starting to school—the things I had to learn. I guess I’d never had an argument with a soul in the world—except a few squabbles with Mama.” She was making up cookie dough. (Now, how could she tell that Charles and me had had a argument?) “I don’t know about Frank,” she said, “but I don’t guess he’d ever argued with a woman, certainly not his mama. We had to <em>learn</em> to argue. I’d get so mad at him. We’d stay mad for days, not speaking. I finally figured out that that kind of business scared me. Scared me bad. And that’s why I was so mad. Like with old man Wiley’s bull, Red—us being scared and mad getting run together at the same time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Old man Wiley’s bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I shot old man Wiley’s bull one time. Named Red. I couldn’t have been over twelve. He was always getting loose and chasing us up a tree. Mama told Mr. Wiley to keep his bull locked up, else she’d shoot him. Course I heard all this talk—so one day all of us were down in the woods when Red got out and started pawing dirt, throwing his head around, and snorting, and I ran to the house and snuck the shotgun out the back door. Everybody was up a tree when I got back. I <a id="page_31"></a>shot him. He turned and run and I shot him again. We hated that bull. And the reason we hated him was we were so scared of him. Why, the bull won’t doing nothing unnatural. And the whole point is, we were mad <em>because</em> we were scared and I never figured <em>that</em> out until me and Frank figured out about our arguments.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whose bull was it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was old man Wiley’s bull. One day I told Frank that our arguments scared me and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to the bull?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, he won’t hurt none. The gun had birdshot. Ah, the pies are ready.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There’s no apple pie in the world better than Aunt Flossie’s, especially with cold vanilla ice cream melting down over it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Frank died when I was about seven. He was a car salesman. I don’t remember much about him. But I’ve seen lots of pictures of him and Aunt Flossie, Mama and Daddy, and Aunt Naomi and Uncle Forrest, who died sometime before I was six. They all went to the beach, the fair, and the mountains together and took bunches of pictures.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How old was I when Uncle Forrest died?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Four. Three or four, I guess. Frank used to call him ‘Woody.’ What a card he was. Always kidding. People always liked that about him though. I never saw him embarrassed but once. Did I ever tell you about the time we all went to the beach before him and Naomi were married?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, me and Doris were swimming in the ocean when here comes Naomi and Forrest from the bath house. They don’t get no farther than about a foot deep—where the waves are breaking for the third or fourth time—and Naomi is holding <a id="page_32"></a>onto Forrest’s hand and jumping every little wave and screaming like nobody’s business when Doris—who’s standing behind me—says, ‘Lord have mercy.’ I look and there’s Naomi just jumping up and down over those little waves, laughing, and one of her breasts—just as white as flour—was out of her bathing suit and Forrest—they weren’t married yet—was looking off down the beach, like he hadn’t noticed. Doris says, ‘Lord have mercy, Flossie, one of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’ Well, I thought I would die. I started walking toward them, motioning to Naomi, and she just kept jumping up and down. Forrest was pretending he hadn’t noticed—looking off down the beach. Naomi saw and turned away from Forrest and bent over double and got everything tucked back in. Forrest was standing there embarrassed to death and I said, ‘Tell us a joke, Woody.’ But the funniest thing was your mama saying, ‘One of Naomi’s dinners has fell out.’”</p>

  <p class="indent">A pan of cookies was done—and Aunt Flossie wrapped me up a bunch in wax paper and put them in a cookie can.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Anyway, honey, try not to worry too much about the rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What rough spots?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“With Charles—if and when.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, there ain’t no rough spots.” I couldn’t get into all that about Charles. Even with Aunt Flossie. If it got worse: maybe.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean any you might have.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Well, Charles is just as sweet as he can be. We been working up some new music. We learned three new Carter family tunes last week. I’ll let you know if there get to be any rough spots.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_33"></a>“You be sure to do that,” says Aunt Flossie. “It never hurts to have somebody to listen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A week or two ago, Charles said he wished he had a Aunt Flossie in his family. His aunts are all out West, or in Connecticut.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_6">V</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Aunt Naomi called me this past Wednesday was a week ago and upset me terrible. She called to find out all about our upcoming trip to the beach: when, exactly, we were coming back, what food she needed to take, and so forth. She also said Mama was upset about the argument with Charles—they had talked about it on the phone—but that Mama wouldn’t say nothing to me about it for the world. She said Mama felt betrayed and couldn’t understand why it all had to happen to her.</p>

  <p class="indent">Well, it just made me sick. I don’t know why Charles had to react so. Mama would never hurt anything in the world, and Charles knows it.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now Aunt Naomi, as well as Mama, has got something against Charles. The problem is that nobody has seen the good side of anybody else—in the whole family, since the wedding—except, I guess Daddy has pretty much seen the good side of Charles, and has took to Charles better than anybody else. Except me, of course—and maybe Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">So anyway, when we drove to the beach last Sunday (we left <a id="page_34"></a>right after Sunday School), Charles insisted on sitting up front with Daddy, so they could talk about surf fishing. They had these great long fishing rods, and some short ones, tied to the top of the car. I don’t know why they don’t just use the short ones, which are way less expensive, and fish off the pier like other people. They can get their line farther out in the ocean that way. Those big rods cost a fortune.</p>

  <p class="indent">I wanted Charles to sit in the back with me and Aunt Naomi so they could get to know each other’s good sides a little better, and so Mama and Daddy could sit up front where they could argue by themselves. But oh no. Charles gets up front before anybody else has a chance. Me, Mama, and Aunt Naomi sat in the back. Uncle Nate, Aunt Flossie, Mary Faye, and Norris followed us in Aunt Flossie’s Oldsmobile.</p>

  <p class="indent">The funny thing is this: Charles has not gone anywhere with Daddy driving—and Daddy don’t always chew tobacco when he drives but last Sunday he did; and what he does when he chews tobacco and drives is use a drink bottle, usually a short Coke-a-cola bottle, for a spitoon. When I saw Daddy bringing a Coke bottle to the car I figured it served Charles right for not wanting to ride in the back with Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">See, Charles has a repulsion about anything gooey and slimey. He won’t eat boiled okra and he thinks somebody spitting is just awful, whereas I don’t see nothing wrong with it as long as it’s not on somebody.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes if Daddy takes a chew while he’s driving, and a Coke bottle’s not around, he’ll open the car door at a stop sign and spit on the road—which might have been better for Charles on this trip—but when he does that, the tobacco spatters up, and the car door gets to looking like a speckled dog until Mama goes out and cleans it off with Ajax.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_35"></a>So Sunday, as soon as Daddy gets settled behind the steering wheel, he cuts off this big hunk of Brown Williamson. I buy him four plugs every Christmas and I buy Mama a bottle of Jergen’s lotion. Of course that’s not all I buy. Last Christmas I bought Daddy a pair of ceramic bird dogs and I bought Mama a off-white shawl which she took back. She takes back most things she buys or you give her. She’s always hard to buy for. She’ll <em>tell</em> you she’s hard to buy for. One Christmas, Ferbie Layton told Aunt Flossie that Mama was pretty and Aunt Flossie told me and Aunt Naomi that she was passing along the compliment to Mama as a Christmas present because for sure Mama couldn’t return that. If she does keep something you give her, she’ll alter it. One Christmas I gave her a free-hanging plaid blouse which she said she believed she’d take up even though we all told her it was the right length. So she finally said she wouldn’t take it up. Aunt Flossie said she bet she would. (I think she did, but we never knew for sure.)</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t got as far as Paulsen’s Gulf when Daddy pulls his Coke bottle up from between his legs and spits in a long string of brown juice. He breaks the spit off by flicking the mouth of the Coke bottle against his bottom lip. Comes clear every time.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles squirmed. I wanted to say Charles if you weren’t watching out for yourself so much, you wouldn’t have to be up there; you could be back here in the back seat getting to know Aunt Naomi a little better, and Mama could be up front with Daddy so they wouldn’t have to argue back and forth across the seat.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Mama says what she always says at the Oak Hill intersection when we go to the beach: “Thurman, you’re going to turn to the right here?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_36"></a>“Yes I am, Doris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re not going by the interstate?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just asked, Thurman. Remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember we clocked it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, it was longer when we went this way.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That was early of a Friday morning when the traffic was thick.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, the point is you don’t have all them little towns to drive through on the interstate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Doris, I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just thinking of how not to take so long to get there. I declare,” says Mama to Aunt Naomi, “the ‘blacks’ stop in these little towns in the middle of the street and talk to whoever happens to be on the sidewalk and you can’t blow your horn lest one’s liable to come back for all you know and cut your throat.” (Mama has started saying “blacks” when Charles is around. And I guess I have too.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be glad to let you drive if you want to,” Daddy says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay, I’ll drive,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a long pause during which the car didn’t slow down a bit.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll drive,” says Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well then,” says Mama, “you shouldn’t say you’ll be glad for me to drive.” There was this other long pause. “When you’re not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy just looked at Charles, shifted his tobacco from one cheek to the other and says, “You got any connector sleeves in your tackle box? I’m out.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_37"></a>Charles said he had plenty.</p>

  <p class="indentt">For the past ten years, every time we go to the beach, we eat at Hardee’s in Goldsboro. So when we got close, Daddy says, “Ya’ll want to eat at Hardee’s?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Any place is fine with me,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">And do you know what Charles has the gall to say? He says, “I’d rather eat at some place we can sit down to order, if it’s all the same.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I could not believe my ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">One reason Charles had to speak up is because he took a course at the college called Aggressiveness Training. It teaches you to say what you want to say when you want to say it. The thing is: Charles never needed any aggressiveness training. He’s never had any problem being aggressive. But he thinks it’s the modern way or something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to eat at Hardee’s so I can get a apple turnover,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy said he didn’t care, someplace to sit down and order would be fine with him, but Mama and Aunt Naomi sided with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">You see, Charles tries out his aggressiveness training when in his heart he really don’t care. He just wants to keep it in practice—keep it working, like when you break up a flower bed in winter just to keep it loose.</p>

  <p class="indent">We ate at Hardee’s.</p>

  <p class="indent">After lunch, me and Charles traded car seats. His idea.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now. You would think Charles could ride to the beach without disagreeing with Aunt Naomi right there in the back seat. But oh no. It was over a very simple matter.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi goes to our church but she lives out in the <a id="page_38"></a>country, close to Hillview Baptist—not a Free Will, and while we rode along she told all about them having to let their preacher go.</p>

  <p class="indent">“After it all got out they didn’t have no choice but to let him go,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it started out with him praying regular with this woman whose husband got killed in a car wreck. I didn’t know her—or her husband. She hadn’t been around long. I think they were praying every Wednesday night after prayer meeting. She up and moves to Charlotte and nobody thought anything about it until Tim Hodges, who’s the treasurer, noticed these regular phone calls on the church phone bill. One was over thirty minutes. He told Lloyd Womble, the head deacon. I guess they kept a eye on things and one Friday after the preacher said he was going to see his brother in Franklin, they checked up on him. Called his brother. His brother hadn’t seen him and won’t expecting him. Well.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Saturday, when the preacher got back, Tim and Lloyd paid him a visit. Asked him where he’d been and he said to see his brother. And of course they had him. Just plain had him.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They certainly are a trusting bunch,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes,” says Aunt Naomi, “they trust in the Lord, of course.” She was looking straight at the back of Charles’s head. “Now the funny part was that Emily, the preacher’s wife, didn’t get mad at the preacher—that I know of. She got mad at Tim and Lloyd because they wouldn’t believe it when the preacher said he was sorry. She said <em>she</em> believed he was sorry. But what else would the man say—caught red-handed. Tim and Lloyd felt obliged to bring it before the church and the church voted him out. He had to move.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_39"></a>After a minute, Charles says, “It’s possible that Jesus would have forgiven him. After all, he forgave a prostitute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">That took the cake. I’ve been going to church since I was born and I don’t remember anything about Jesus forgiving a prostitute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Besides that, a prostitute is not married like the preacher was.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi just looked out the window, then hunted through her pocketbook for some chewing gum and said, “Well, I don’t know about that.”</p>

  <p class="indentt">We stay at Mr. Albert Douglas’s cabin at the beach every summer. He rents it to us at half price and it’s only two blocks from the ocean. We found the key on the nail in the stumpy tree beside the back door and let ourselves in. Everything had been left in order. We opened all the windows to get rid of the closed-in smell. There was a nice breeze.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate took Norris and Mary Faye for a quick look at the ocean while the rest of us unpacked. I insisted me and Charles get the couch to sleep on since we’d probably be staying up later than anybody else.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had barely got settled when Uncle Nate’s asthma started acting up. It usually does at the beach. He sat down on the couch and said he’d sit there for a spell. He was breathing fast, pulling back with his shoulders on each breath, and giving a little wheezy cough every minute or so. His hair was slicked straight back with Vitalis and he was wearing a starched white shirt as usual.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris and Mary Faye came in begging Charles and me to take them to the boardwalk. I kind of wanted to go to the boardwalk myself. I like the hubbub. So Charles and me took them. We <a id="page_40"></a>all got a ice cream cone as soon as we got there, but before Norris took the first bite, his scoop fell out. Vanilla—he won’t eat nothing but vanilla. He started to pick it up.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stupid,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris,” I said, “ask the lady for another scoop. Don’t pick that up off the boardwalk.” He already had most of it up. He let it drop back. The lady saw what happened and had him another scoop ready when he reached up his cone. I got some napkins and wiped off his hand.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked along the boardwalk. I looked back to check on Norris. He was walking along, looking back over his shoulder at this little boy with a stuffed giraffe. His ice cream cone was tilting more and more.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Norris, don’t drop your—”</p>

  <p class="indent">That scoop fell between the planks and left just the slightest bit up top. Norris squatted down and looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">The lady made us pay this time. I guess she was worried about going out of business.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles bought me a necklace from one of those little jewelry stands. I told him it was too expensive but he bought it anyway and had “Love, Tiger” wrote on it. He does little things like that, that a lot of men never think about. I tried to get him to ring the bell with the sledge hammer, but he wouldn’t. Norris wanted to but I wouldn’t let him. He would have been disappointed. I did let him and Mary Faye ride the bumper cars three times. They got the bottoms of their feet so black Aunt Naomi made them wash them off with soap at the outside shower before she’d let them come in the cottage.</p>

  <p class="indent">We had pimento cheese and monkey meat—that’s luncheon meat—sandwiches and potato chips for supper. Then after <a id="page_41"></a>supper while Daddy was unfolding the card table for Rook, Aunt Naomi wanted to know how thick the niggers had been down at the boardwalk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not very,” I said. “They hang out mostly over at Wright’s beach.” That’s the nigger beach. “I don’t think I saw over one or two.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I saw a whole car load,” says Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’ve got as much right as anyone else to walk on the boardwalk,” says Charles. Charles has this thing about niggers. For some reason he don’t understand how they are. Or at least how they are around Listre and Bethel. Maybe his Johnny friend is different. I can only speak for the ones around Listre and Bethel.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, son,” says Aunt Naomi, “I agree they got a right. The Constitution gives them a right. So that’s settled. There’s no question about that. No argument at all about that. The problem comes with where they want to spend their time. And so long as they’ve got <em>their</em> beach, like Raney says, then I don’t understand to my life why they don’t use it—why they have to use ours. In Russia they wouldn’t have their own beach. But our constitution does provide that they can have their own beach. I agree. It’s just that they need to stay in their own place at their own beach just like the white people stay at their own place at their own beach.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody else said anything—Uncle Nate was asleep on the couch—but you could tell we all agreed except Charles. He walks through the screen door on outside.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t understand where he gets some of his attitudes,” says Aunt Naomi. “What’s trumps?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_42"></a>Monday morning, Mama and me cooked eggs, bacon, grits, and biscuits. After breakfast, Daddy, Uncle Nate, and Charles took Mary Faye and Norris fishing at the pier. Me, Mama, Aunt Naomi, and Aunt Flossie cleaned up the dishes, put on our bathing suits, got towels and suntan lotion, and walked to the beach. We were all planning to meet back at the cabin for lunch.</p>

  <p class="indent">About the time we got settled on a nice even spot, along came this Marine with a woman who had a blue lightning bolt tattooed on the inside of her knee. They sat down on this white towel—too little for both of them—beside some college students. The waves were crashing, so I know they couldn’t hear us talk.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare I don’t think I’ve ever seen a woman with a tattoo,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“On the inside of her knee.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, <em>where</em>? Where are they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh. Right over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He looks like a soldier.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a Marine from Camp Lejune,” I said. “I can tell by the way his hair’s cut.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see no tattoo on her,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute and you will,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There it is,” says Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’ll be dog,” says Aunt Naomi. “Don’t that beat all? A blue lightning bolt. Do you reckon she drew that on there with a ball point pen?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not unless she can draw mighty good,” says Mama. <a id="page_43"></a>“Course a lightning bolt ain’t all that hard to draw. I remember from school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now can you imagine,” says Aunt Naomi, “Some woman walking into a tattoo parlor with a bunch of men standing around, hiking up her dress and saying I want a blue lightning bolt tattooed right here on the inside of my knee? Can you imagine that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I sure can’t,” says Mama. “But she looks like she’s been in plenty places like that. I mean she looks like she’s spent a good deal of her life indoors in some back room.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, she could be a you-know-what,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman was pale and skinny with black hair stringy wet from swimming. She lit a cigarette and when she pulled it out of her mouth she laughed smoke at something the Marine said and I could see some of her teeth were rotten.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young people nowadays will go to almost any length,” said Aunt Naomi. “I don’t know what it’s all coming to. Who ever heard of so much burning, beating, and stabbing, and my Lord, I can’t imagine what Papa would done to me had I come home with a blue lightning bolt tattooed on my kneecap. Why he would—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s on the inside of her knee,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why he would have skint me alive.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked Charles all of a sudden and said we’d better come to the house, that Norris had a fish hook hung in his <em>nose</em>. He said that on Mary Faye’s first cast, Norris was walking behind her and the hook caught him, as clean as day, in his left nostril—<em>with the worm still on the hook</em>. We followed him to the cottage. I couldn’t imagine.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walk in and there sits Norris in a straightback chair, crying, with Uncle Nate down on his knees trying to see in <a id="page_44"></a>Norris’s nose and Norris trying to hold his head still but not being able to on account of crying.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris rolls his eyes to look at us when we walk in. Standing there beside him is Mary Faye, holding a rod and Zebco reel with a line leading to Norris’s nose where the hook is stuck in his nostril with a live worm half in and half out. It won’t bleeding though. Daddy is standing behind Uncle Nate, watching.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I say we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute,” says Uncle Nate, “if the barb ain’t in we can pull it right out.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If the barb ain’t in, it would’ve fell out, wouldn’t it?—with that great big worm on there,” says Aunt Flossie. “He must weigh half a pound.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t need that much worm to catch a fish,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think we ought to take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I agree,” I said. In many ways Charles is very clearheaded.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, if I can just—” said Uncle Nate, reaching up toward Norris’s nose.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris lets out this short yell and puts his hand in front of his face.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stands up and looks around at everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Take him to the hospital,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Tears are dropping off the worm. A drop of blood appears.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s bleeding,” says Charles. “What’s wrong with taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s the worm bleeding,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you know that?” asks Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_45"></a>“Cause it’s a blood worm. They’re supposed to bleed. That’s what it’s called: a blood worm. That’s what it says where you buy them on the pier: blood worms, $2.00 a dozen.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Gosh, they’ve gone up,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, suppose it <em>is</em> the worm,” says Charles. “What can you lose by taking him to the hospital?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The worm or Norris?” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Norris,</em>” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Norris goes, the worm goes,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“To start with,” says Uncle Nate to Charles, “you’re going to lose about fifty dollars. Second, you’re going to lose a chance to do something for yourself instead of some overpaid doctor doing it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles walked out the door. Again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy took over. “Now, wait a minute,” he said. “Everybody sit down. No. No, not you, Mary Faye. You stand right there and hold the pole, honey.” He pulled a chair in front of Norris’s chair and sat down. “You all go on about your business. I want to talk to Norris a few minutes. Let me have the rod and reel, Mary Faye. Now, Mr. Norris. I’ll bet that nose hurts, don’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why don’t you stand up real easy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stood up, stretching his neck out and holding his head still like a dog smelling a dead snake, his hands hanging down by his sides with his fingers spread like he was afraid of touching something gooey—or like he <em>had</em> touched something gooey.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Okay,” said Daddy, “I’ll tell you what let’s do—do you want to get that old worm out of there?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down, easy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_46"></a>“Now the first thing I want you to do is give me your hand.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris reached out his hand and Daddy took it in his hand and massaged it around and around. “Now you just relax. We’ll get that old worm right out of there in no time flat. You think about that little sting as a mosquito bite.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded his head up and down. A tear dropped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now you take holt of the line right here—that’s right. Right there. That’s good. Now you just move your hand up along the line until it gets up to that little hook. Okay. Now. You relax and I’m going to wrap my hand around your hand and help you out a little bit.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris nodded up and down, slow. His eyes were getting bigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hold your head real still and we’ll—”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy nudged up and then down, and that hook came right out—as pretty as you please. Aunt Flossie went over and hugged Norris and he started bawling and his nose started bleeding but we put some cold towels on it. Mama got a little alcohol on some cotton up in there and then some Vaseline. Norris cried with the alcohol but calmed down with the Vaseline.</p>

  <p class="indentt">We ate banana sandwiches for lunch. Then me and Uncle Nate went along with Daddy and Charles to watch them surf fish. First we stopped by the fish market and bought some fish to cut up and use for bait; then we drove to this spot where Daddy said the blues might be biting.</p>

  <p class="indent">They’d cast far out with a piece of dead fish on the hook, then stand there for ten or fifteen minutes before winding in <a id="page_47"></a>the line to check the bait, which was smoothed down and considerably smaller than when they first threw it out. Charles said the sand and current did that. He let me hold his rod for a while, then he asked Uncle Nate if he wanted to hold it for a while, but he said no, and at about three o’clock Uncle Nate left—said he was going to walk up to the boardwalk and try to find a newspaper. We fished until about five and caught one fish. Daddy caught him but he was too little to keep.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got back to the cottage, Mama and the others had been swimming. Everybody was sunburned except Daddy. He wears all his clothes at the beach, all the time, every time we go.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate didn’t turn up for supper and I could tell Mama was worried. We had cold fried chicken left over from the trip down, tomatoes, hot snap beans, and fresh hot biscuits, and had finished and been sitting around talking for a while when in walked Uncle Nate: drunk. But I didn’t think he was terribly drunk because he looked decent, except he had one sleeve rolled up and the other rolled down and unbuttoned.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “what in the world have you gone and done?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, Doris, nothing in the worl’ but been fishing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I declare,” says Mama, “you’d think you could come to the beach with your own family and behave yourself.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Daddy walked out on the porch with his oatmeal cookie.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles was over on the couch reading a <em>Time</em> magazine. Uncle Nate went over and sat down beside him.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Where’d you go to school, boy?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Atlanta.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They teach you the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_48"></a>“The what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The stays and capols.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t think so? You don’t think so? Wha’s capol of Missesota?” He was drunker than he looked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Missesota?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Minnesota.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>You don’t know! You don’t know! St. Paul.</em> Hell no, they di’n teach you no capols.” Uncle Nate looked around.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama, “there’ll be no cussing in this beach cottage. You have done enough damage getting drunk in front of these children. It’s bad enough without you cussing in the very cottage Al Douglas has been nice enough to rent us at half price.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at her and then turned back to Charles. “Montgomery Alabama, Phoenix Arizona, Little Rock Arkansas, Sacramento California, Denver Colorado. Hell, I know ‘em every one.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” Mama says, “now I have told you—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Name a stay,” Uncle Nate says to Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Florida.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Tallahassee. Ha. See? Capol T-a-l-l-a-h-a-s-s-e-e. We had to learn to spell them too. How come you din have to learn the stays and capols?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What good is it?” asks Charles, pushing up off the couch with his hands and slipping away.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Why, hell, if you’re traveling through Miss’ippi and somebody says ‘what’s the capol of this stay?’ you say ‘St. Paul.’ You know something about <a id="page_49"></a>the stay you’re in. What <em>good</em> is it? What <em>good</em> is it? Hell, why come you learn anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Charles, “I’m just thinking why not write it all down on a piece of paper, put it in your billfold, and then spend all that time learning something else. Then when somebody wants to know a capital, pull out the piece of paper and read the answer.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“<em>Read</em> the answer. <em>Read</em> the answer. Shit, when I went to school—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate!” Mama says. “I said I was not going to have it and I mean it. If you want me to call the law you just keep it up. I’ll do it. I’ll do it right this very night.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate got quiet, almost whispering—“When I went to school you learned your lessons. You went home and learned your lessons. And when it was time to work you worked. And when it was time to go to church, you went to church. And when it was time to go to bed, you went to bed. And when it was ti—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m just glad I didn’t have to learn the states and capitals,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We had to <em>spell</em> them too.” Uncle Nate spit on “spell.” “Miss’ippi. Capol M-i-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i. Jackson. Capol J-a-c-k-s-o-n.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I’m glad you learned all that,” said Charles, getting up from the couch. “I think it’s about time I turned in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t care if you’re too good to talk to me,” says Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I’m too good to talk to you.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_50"></a>“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh yes, yes, yes you do. I know when somebody thinks they’re too good to talk to me. But don’t worry, you’re not the first one. You just go right ahead off to beddy bye, sonny.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles looked at me and I remembered we were sleeping on the couch. Everybody but Daddy had been sitting around listening. They started getting up—except Mama, who was sitting on a stool by the sink—and heading off to bed. It was time anyway. Charles asked me if I wanted to go out and get a breath of fresh air and I said I did.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you wanted to go to bed?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re sitting on my bed,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m sitting on the goddamn couch.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama stood up. “Uncle Nate,” I said. “Now, listen, Charles does not think he’s too good for you. You’ve just had too much to drink, and I think you ought to cut out that language. You’re here with the entire family and the least you can do is be polite. Charles does not think he’s too good for you. He’s just got his own opinions like anybody else, that’s all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked straight at me, with his mouth open and his eyes red and droopy, “You’re right, honey,” he says. “You’re exactly right.” And he starts crying. “I love you all more than anything,” he says, “and I pray for ever’one of you ever’night. I pray for you, Doris, and you, Raney, and for you, Naomi, and Thurman, and you, Flossie, and the kids and you too, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nate, you’d better pray for yourself,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked at Mama. His head was bobbing around and tears were on his cheeks. His head got still and he smiled and said, “Oh, I do that first.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_51"></a>“Let’s go outside,” Charles says to me. I walked over and patted Uncle Nate on the back and then me and Charles went outside while Mama fussed at Uncle Nate for taking the Lord’s name in vain.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked down to the beach and started toward the pier. Mary Faye was following us. We stopped and she stopped.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’ll have to go back, Mary Faye,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You just will.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t want to.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’re going to walk down to the pier and it’s time for you to go to bed.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not sleepy. Come on. Let me go. Daddy said I could.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Charles to wait and I went back and talked to Mary Faye. I figured she might be upset too. I told her that Uncle Nate was a good man at heart and not to be afraid of him, that God moves in mysterious ways, and that Uncle Nate’s cussing was the work of the Devil.</p>

  <p class="indent">She said she just wanted to go to the pier.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I explained that Charles was upset about Uncle Nate and that I needed to talk to him and that we’d go to the pier tomorrow.</p>

  <p class="indent">She kicked the sand, making it squeak, turned around and went on back.</p>

  <p class="indent">At the pier, Charles said Uncle Nate was a “weird bird.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean?” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he’s so neat, and so infernally obsessive. Drinking water at the same time every day?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“When he’s sober he does. Three o’clock in the afternoon.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s just . . . the way he sits around and falls asleep; and then those incredible binges. He’s obviously depressed.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_52"></a>“Charles, he had some terrible times in World War II and sometimes he can’t hardly breathe with that asthma and emphysema or whatever. He never recovered from the war and Mama’s had to take care of him, don’t you see? And he won’t talk to anybody about what happened to him, except Uncle Newton—all night one night, they say. And Uncle Newton’s getting too sick for anybody to talk to, much. And he has to take those drugs for his nerves and his asthma. And he got that terrible burn on over fifty percent of his body. He’s got one big awful scar all over his body that he’ll have to carry with him all his life, plus his lungs from inhaling all that smoke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, there are lots of men who were wounded and had terrible times in World War II, and Vietnam, and World War I. They don’t necessarily sit around falling asleep all the time.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Maybe they sleep at night, Charles. Maybe you don’t know all about what’s wrong with everybody, and maybe it’s something besides ‘psychology.’ I think part of the problem is you don’t think Uncle Nate likes you all that much.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s right. And where do you suppose I got that idea? He is obviously jealous. It’s not a great deal of fun being around that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s not the only other one in my family who you get to be around, Charles.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, he’s not the only other one; that’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It’s too bad Charles was a only child brought up without any family around. When he went to see a aunt or uncle, his mama and daddy had to carry him to another state. He just don’t have a single sense about family, about having family.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_53"></a>When Uncle Nate is sober he’s as nice as he can be. And you’ll never find anybody neater. His clothes are always pressed and starched. Well, Mama keeps them that way, but he keeps everything hung up and straight and folded. Then he’ll get drunk and filthy and come home and cuss something awful. And nobody able to do a thing unless it’s the law. Dorcus Kerr, the deputy sheriff, can usually handle him pretty well. Mama hates it when it comes to that. Daddy usually calls Dorcus, and Dorcus comes in his uniform. He puts it on if he’s off duty. Uncle Nate respects a uniform.</p>

  <p class="indentt">By Friday night, Uncle Nate had gotten sober on his own, thank goodness. After supper he wanted to hear “Give Me the Roses,” so Charles and me got out our instruments and did it. It’s one of our favorites too. It goes like this:</p>

  <p class="poem">Wonderful things of folks are said<br />
  When they are passed away.<br />
  Roses adorn their narrow bed<br />
  Over the sleeping clay.<br />
  Give me the roses while I live,<br />
  Trying to cheer me on.<br />
  Useless are flowers that you give<br />
  After the soul is gone.</p>

  <p class="indentt">And it has a couple more verses.</p>

  <p class="indent">Then Daddy wanted to hear “Unclouded Day,” which Charles has been wanting to learn ever since I met him. We learned it about three weeks ago. So we did that, and then “Are You Tired of Me, My Darling?” and “Fifty Miles of Elbow Room,” two other Carter family tunes Daddy and Charles like. We tried to get everybody to sing on “Fifty <a id="page_54"></a>Miles,” but Uncle Nate and Daddy would be so far off key everybody would start laughing and that would get me laughing and that would get Charles laughing.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we finished singing, Uncle Nate told about the Christmas Uncle Pugg went to Raleigh to sell wreaths and holly and mistletoe and got lost and was too proud to ask anybody the way home. He slept that night in a church and the next morning the preacher saw him come out and asked him if he was the man who’d come to fix the steps. Uncle Pugg said he was. He had his tools in a box in the wagon. He fixed the steps and the preacher asked him to fix the roof and so he did that. Then the preacher asked him if he brought the window to put in. Uncle Pugg said he didn’t but that a man over in Bethel had the window and could the preacher tell him how to get there. The preacher told him, and Uncle Pugg came on home.</p>

  <p class="indent">At about ten o’clock when everybody else was going to bed, me and Charles walked out to the pier. Charles said he wasn’t even sure about the <em>names</em> of anybody in his family, besides his mama and daddy and aunts and uncles. I couldn’t imagine aunts and uncles not sitting around and telling all about <em>their</em> aunts and uncles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Out on the pier the breeze was steady and cool and the air had that fresh salty smell without the dead fish smell. The moon was coming up over the water, and waves hit against the poles, moving the pier the least bit. The moon was a dark red—because of the atmosphere, Charles said. He said it looks big at the horizon because it’s magnified by the air, which I’d never thought about. I always thought the orbit was closer when it came up, and then moved away. It sure <em>looks</em> <a id="page_55"></a>that way. Charles said the red was because of chemicals and such in the atmosphere. He knows about stuff I never think about. Anyway, the moon got whiter and higher and soon reflected white off the water.</p>

  <p class="indent">We stood against the rail, pushing our shoulders together, and Charles sung this little song:</p>

  <p class="poem">I see the moon and the moon sees me.<br />
  And the moon sees the one that I want to see.<br />
  God bless the moon and God bless me.<br />
  And God bless the one that I want to see.</p>

  <p class="indent">I love Charles more than anything. Sometimes he’s hard to get along with, and sometimes he has some problems with the family, but he makes up for it in all kinds of little ways, and he’s always praising my singing to other people. Daddy said he thought Charles had plenty of common sense beneath all that book learning, and then too at the wedding Daddy said he thought Charles was a good man.</p>

  <p class="indent">We came back home on Saturday and on the way Mama read to us out of a pamphlet she got in a drug store. It was about having a Christian home and the husband’s role and the wife’s role. I thought it made good sense, but Charles goes into a sermon right there in the back seat about customs being different in Bible times—which is not the point.</p>

  <p class="indentt">After we got back from the beach, and Charles got his rods separated out, and we drove on home and unpacked, and finished eating supper—some chili I froze before we left—Charles says, “I think I’ll call Johnny.” I had totally forgot to say anything about the vent or ask Charles if Johnny was a minority, but before I could say anything, Charles was on the <a id="page_56"></a>phone, talking about the beach trip. I was eating peaches for dessert and it didn’t seem like Charles minded me sitting there listening.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s got blue hair,” he said, “and talks more than anybody I ever met.” He was talking about you know who: Aunt Naomi, and eyeing me while he sat there, twisting the curly black phone cord around his finger. Then Johnny must have asked Charles what I looked like. “What does <em>she</em> look like?” said Charles, and looked at me and winked. “The most beautiful eyes I’ve ever seen, some kind of blue-green, and her front two teeth tuck back just enough to make her mouth cute, kind of pouty, and besides all that, she has the purest singing voice ever—can bend a note on a country song as good as any blues singer you ever heard. . . . What? No. No bad habits. Wait a minute. Raney, would you please leave the room?” Then he laughed and said I cussed too much which was a flip-flop because Charles is the one who cusses, and then he said the only fault he could think of was I didn’t give him any warning when I started a song and that I rubbed my nose straight up with the flat palm of my hand, but that was cute. Then he said none of my other faults were my fault.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought about going to the bedroom and listening through the vent, but that wouldn’t have been fair. Maybe it would have been fair if Charles was my child. Mama read my mail; but it was for my own interest. She said she wasn’t interested from curiosity, but for the sake of my well-being. So since Charles won’t my child and did have a peculiar reaction about privacy which I don’t understand, I decided I should tell him about the vent when he finished talking. But he talked so <em>long</em>. He told about the fish hook in Norris’s nose and then went <a id="page_57"></a>through Uncle Nate’s spelling lesson almost word for word and then some more about Aunt Naomi. He had good things to say about Daddy and Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished talking, Charles said Johnny said hello.</p>

  <p class="indent">I asked Charles what I dreaded: “Charles, is Johnny a minority?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s black, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

  <p class="indent">A picture flashed in my mind of Mama and Daddy and Mary Faye and Norris and Uncle Nate and Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie and maybe a child of ours in the living room with Charles and his best friend, a nigger.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did you say something to him about coming here?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, not tonight. Why?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I just wondered.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Would that be a problem?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t guess so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You don’t guess so?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, Charles, I know you were in the war together and everything but this ain’t exactly the war.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with our friendship?’</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nothing, but—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Then why are we talking about this?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. The army has been segregated since 1948, you said, but Listre still has the black laundromat and the white laundromat and nobody complaining—neither side. Johnny might get embarrassed downtown, that’s all I’m worried about.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_58"></a>“You mean the army has been <em>integrated</em> since 1948.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I said.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You said <em>segregated</em>.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Whatever.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, don’t worry about how Johnny might feel. He’s sensitive to racial issues. You don’t need to talk to a race horse about the race. He’s been there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What are you talking about?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What I’m saying is that Johnny knows about towns like Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with a race horse?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Never mind. Don’t worry about it. He’s not coming anytime soon as far as I know. He’s busy with law school.”</p>

  <p class="indent">What happened with all this conversation about Johnny Dobbs was: I forgot to mention the vent.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_7">VI</h3>

  <p class="noindent">Charles’s mother called on the Monday after we got back from the beach and said she was going to Connecticut the first week in September to see her sister, Charles’s Aunt Sue, and would like to drop by to see us—on the way up (Monday, Monday night, and Tuesday), and on the way back down to Atlanta (Saturday night and Sunday). She asked if it would be all right, if three months had given us enough time to settle in. I told her it had. She said not to do any extra preparing.</p>

  <p class="indent">Lord, Lord. Last week was the big week. And it was not <a id="page_59"></a>smooth, like I’d hoped it would be. Charles had that meeting at our house—wouldn’t cancel it—on Monday night, then the Sneeds business was all over the newspaper on the following Saturday which we got in a argument about at Sunday dinner at Mama’s with Charles’s mother sitting right there in the middle of it, taking up for Sneeds. Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Not to speak of the fact that Charles and Millie went to an Episcopal Church Sunday morning—and dragged me along.</p>

  <p class="indent">I figured from the start we’d put Millie in the guest room. (She told me on the phone, again, to call her Millie.) Charles suggested <em>we</em> stay in the guest room and his mama stay in our room. I said a guest is a guest and that his mother was the guest and that’s what the room is: a guest room.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said his mother was not used to sleeping on a narrow bed. So I asked him what did he think I was used to sleeping on, and why didn’t he just give his mother the whole house and we’d move on down to the Landmark Motel for the duration.</p>

  <p class="indent">It was a matter of principle for me and I won out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday, before she came on Monday, I vacuumed the whole place, cleaned the window panes in front, shined up the bathroom, and made the guest room a little nicer by putting in the radio alarm clock, our antique brass lamp, a wall mirror, a little table with some fruit in a bowl, and our biggest wedding picture. Then I realized the fruit bowl might draw gnats, so I took that out.</p>

  <p class="indent">Friday night Charles tells me about this meeting he’s planning to have at our house Monday night—whether his mama is there or not. He’s joined this thing called a TEA club; he’s been to several meetings and it was his turn to have the meeting <a id="page_60"></a>at our house. The TEA stands for Thrifty Energy Alternatives. I suddenly realized that with people coming to the meeting, and with Charles’s mother being there, I’d have to paint, or Charles would have to paint, the living room.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles, if you’ll paint that living room some color I can understand then I’ll be happy for you to have your meeting here.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it as it is?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why do you think I’ve carried back those six sets of drapes?” See, Charles is just like a man. Has no more sense for color schemes than Bill Grogan’s goat. “They didn’t <em>go</em>. Nothing goes with that scum green tint. And Mama said none of them went. And for sure your mother and somebody at the meeting will notice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re telling me you don’t want the meeting over here unless I paint the living room?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Most certainly. And your mother can’t come unless you do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney. Do you have some color in mind? My God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some off-white without that green in it. And I’ve told you about cussing in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You get the paint and I’ll paint it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">So I did. Saturday morning. And Charles painted the living room. Saturday afternoon, before he finished, I got these real nice gold and brown drapes that go. Then after that I got my hair done.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sunday afternoon Charles goes to the Winn Dixie for groceries and comes back with a bottle of <em>wine</em>. He didn’t even ask me—just brought it in as bright as day with the groceries, and I found it while I was unpacking.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_61"></a>“Charles, what’s this for?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The TEA meeting.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’d rather not have wine in this house.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, some of the people coming to the meeting will be bringing wine. I’d like also to have some available—for my own mother, anyway.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles. Why do you need wine at a meeting?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“To drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t say anything else, partly because it involved Charles and his own mother and partly because it won’t champagne, which evidently does something to Charles’s brain, and partly, I suppose, because I thought of Madora. She drinks wine at meals, like the French, and she poured me some one afternoon a couple of weeks ago—by mistake: she knows I don’t drink. I took a sip, though, to see what all the fuss was about.</p>

  <p class="indent">Madora’s as fine a Christian as you’ll find—judging from what all she does for people, and how good she is to her mama and daddy. I drunk only one sip. I told her it was better than champagne. She said champagne <em>was</em> wine, which surprised me because they don’t taste the same at all.</p>

  <p class="indent">We picked up Millie at the airport at about one o’clock Monday afternoon. She was wearing dark green slacks and a blouse she seemed too old for, and she brought me a present—some of those little knitted soap holders I never use.</p>

  <p class="indent">We waited for her bags forever. She had two great big brown leather suitcases and one little one. Lord knows what all she had in there—for just one week.</p>

  <p class="indent">To get from the airport to Listre you have to go through Bethel, so on the way home we stopped in at Mama’s for a few minutes. Mama had insisted, and I thought it was a good idea.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_62"></a>Mama and Aunt Naomi were there, sitting in the living room, talking. They had been to a sale at Belks.</p>

  <p class="indent">Everybody said hello to everybody and we all sat down and Mama said something about the sale. She got a navy blue bedspread for forty percent off and Aunt Naomi got a throw rug and two lamp shades for half price. Then they mentioned that on the way back from the sale they’d stopped by the funeral home to see Hattie Rigsbee who had died of a stroke the day before.</p>

  <p class="indent">“She looked so good,” Mama said. “Her skin was clear, good color, no swelling.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve seen them awful swelled,” says Aunt Naomi. “They say it happens worse when they have a heart attack and nobody gets there right away. I remember Wingate Bryant looked awful. They figured he died right after he went to bed, laid there all night and when Rose got up to go to work she figured he was still asleep, until she brought him a plate of spaghetti at lunch and there he was: still in bed. She worked at the school cafeteria,” she said to Millie, “across the street, and would bring him a plate of whatever they had. He was retired. From the telephone company.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember that,” says Mama. “You know, I do believe Hattie Rigsbee, today, was about the best looking corpse I’ve ever seen.” She looked straight at Millie, then at Charles, to get them in the conversation.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles stands up and walks to the kitchen. I could tell he was mad about something; but Lord knows, I didn’t know what, and I hoped Mama and Aunt Naomi and Millie hadn’t noticed.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me put on some coffee,” I said, “and see if I can rustle <a id="page_63"></a>up some cookies.” I followed Charles on back to the kitchen and whispered, “Charles, what in the world is the matter with you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s the matter?” he whispers, staring. “What’s the matter? Did you hear what she said?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who?” I whispered.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who? Who? Your mother.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“About what?” he whispers louder. “About the corpse looking good and all that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I guess I did. I was sitting there, won’t I? What in the world was wrong with that?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s wrong with it? It’s uncivilized—that’s what’s wrong with it. Raney, the body in the funeral home is not the person. It’s the person’s body. Why can’t your mother talk about the person, for God’s sake?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t you use profanity in this kitchen. And don’t get uppity because your mother’s here. What do you expect? They were being respectful of Hattie Rigsbee. That’s all. I’ll bet you didn’t even know she died.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Respect is not the word. Morbid is the word. No, I didn’t know Hattie Rigsbee died. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee. I didn’t even know Hattie Rigsbee was <em>born.</em>”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you should have. You been living around here long enough.” I was looking for cookies as hard as I could.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, we don’t live around here. We live in Listre.”</p>

  <p class="indent">About that time I heard Mama coming down the hall. She came on in the kitchen. “Look, it’s no need to mess with coffee,” she said. “Mrs. Shepherd says she needs to get on over to ya’ll’s house and get settled. Next Sunday you’re all invited <a id="page_64"></a>over here after church for dinner. Her airplane don’t leave until six-thirty so it’ll work out just right. And we can all go to church together Sunday morning.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We drove home and got Millie and all her bags settled in the guest room. I’d planned to fix a meatloaf for supper but remembered Sunday about her being a vegetarian. Charles said to fix omelettes but I’d never cooked a omelette so I had to call Madora for a recipe. I practiced Sunday night, so the real thing Monday night turned out pretty good. Millie helped.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had cooked—of all things—one of Aunt Flossie’s apple pies. He got her to show him exactly how to cook one—he likes them so much. After his mama had a piece she raved about it and asked <em>me</em> what the recipe was. That Charles just sat there smiling and did not say one thing until I explained to Millie that Charles fixed it, not me. She thought I was kidding until Charles talked through about the ingredients and how you fix it. I didn’t dare mention that I hadn’t ever taken on any kind of pie. This one was good. It was a little tart, but it was good.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was just beginning to relax when Millie asks, “Is there an Episcopal church nearby?” I had forgot about her changing over to the Episcopals.</p>

  <p class="indent">“There’s one in White Level,” says Charles. “Sara—at the library—goes there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re more than welcome to come to our church,” I said. “And since we’re going to eat at Mama’s, we’ll be close by.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really like the formality of the Episcopal service,” says Millie. “I’ve gotten used to it. Charles, give them a call this week and if they’re celebrating Eucharist Sunday morning at around ten or eleven, I could slip over for that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_65"></a>I didn’t know what a Eucharist was. Likely as not they’d be celebrating something.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Or,” she says, “if you two like, you could come along with me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think I could go to an Episcopal church,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why not?” they both said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They’re against some of the things we believe in most.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What do you mean by that?” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, they serve real wine at the Lord’s supper. And they have priests, don’t they?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes,” said Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I don’t especially approve of the way priests drink.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Jesus drank—if that’s what you mean—as I understand it,” she says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think so.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, he turned the water into wine at the wedding feast.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, but that was grape juice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Grape juice?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus turned water into wine on the spot,” I said, “it had to be grape juice because it didn’t have time to ferment.”</p>

  <p class="indent">There was a pause.</p>

  <p class="indent">“If Jesus could make wine,” says <em>Charles</em> (you could tell whose side he was on), “he could just as easily make it fermented as not, couldn’t he? Why mess around with half a miracle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve been going to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church for twenty-four years now,” I said, “and Mr. Brooks, Mr. Tolley, Mr. Honneycutt, and all these other men have been studying the Bible for all their lives and they say it’s grape juice. All added together they’ve probably studied the Bible over a hundred years. I’m not going to sit in my own kitchen and go against that.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_66"></a>“But there are Buddhist monks,” says Charles, “who have studied religion for an accumulation of millions of years and they say Jesus was only a holy man and not the son of God. You can find anybody who’s studied something for X number of years. I’m not sure what that proves.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“These Buddhist monks were not studying the Bible,” I said. “They were studying the <em>Koran</em>. We talked about that in Sunday School.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they were studying the <em>Koran,</em>” says Mrs. Shepherd. “You’re talking about Islam.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, the point is: I’m not talking about the Bible. If it’s not in the Bible I’m not interested in it because if I have to stop believing in the Bible I might as well stop living on earth.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Here, let’s get the dishes washed up,” says Mrs. Shepherd. “I appreciate your faith—I guess it’s a small matter anyway. Sometimes I think we spend too much time on relatively picky religious matters.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It won’t no <em>picky</em> matter to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">While we were cleaning up I saw where Charles got his habit of taking the strainer out of the sink and leaving it out, and turning on the faucet and leaving it on. But I didn’t say anything. She was nice to help.</p>

  <p class="indent">Before we finished cleaning up, somebody knocked on the front door. That durn TEA Club meeting. I felt like I hadn’t had time to get my bearings.</p>

  <p class="indent">The meeting was something, and Millie joined in just like she knew everybody.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was this woman dressed in rags who brought her <a id="page_67"></a>baby in a sack on her back. Looked like she’d just walked away from a plane crash with her baby all tangled up in her clothes. What’s more, she was cock-eyed. Looked like she was looking in two directions at once. Like those pictures of John Kennedy.</p>

  <p class="indent">There were more unusual people there. But listen to what the meeting was about: they all, including Charles, and his mama, just flown in from Atlanta, are dead set against the Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant being built north of here.</p>

  <p class="indent">That takes a lot a gall. These scientists have been working for years to get this plant built and Charles and these, well . . . a couple of them looked like hippies to me, and there was a doctor and two college teachers who looked like they don’t eat right and the one with the baby—they all get together and in about fifteen minutes decide that the nuclear power plant has got to go. Has got to <em>go</em>, mind you.</p>

  <p class="indent">They haven’t hurt anything at the power plant. And electricity certainly has to come from somewhere.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was in Pope’s the other day and the mayor, Mr. Crenshaw, was talking to Mrs. Moss. He said the power plant was the best thing that ever happened to Listre—that it would bring new jobs and make taxes lower.</p>

  <p class="indent">Now he’s the mayor. He’s somebody I can listen to. Somebody with a respectable position in the community who <em>has</em> to know what he’s talking about, else he wouldn’t be mayor.</p>

  <p class="indent">Sometimes I believe these hippies and college professors sit around and frown and complain about what’s helping a community most.</p>

  <p class="indent">Look at the war. These hippies and such were telling the people who knew the most about it how to run it. So we lost. Now they’re doing the same thing with this power plant. Do <a id="page_68"></a>you see the people from the power plant telling the hippies how to be hippies? No, because they don’t know anything about it. So they keep their mouths shut.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles told me I could come up front to the meeting but I stayed back in the kitchen. After about thirty minutes, Millie did come back and talk to me about how nice Charles and me had fixed up the house. She had a glass of wine, but that’s the only one she drunk as far as I know. I never thought I’d see wine under a roof I lived under. Live and learn. I won’t be a prude; but I do have principles and I will certainly keep close guard on what goes on. We’re not going to have any alcohol under this roof for more than twelve hours, and otherwise only on some special occasions of Charles’s. And when we have a child we’ll have to discuss the whole thing very seriously. I never saw a drop of alcohol at home except in a bottle Uncle Nate brought in.</p>

  <p class="indent">I told Millie about Charles painting the living room and she thought it was funny about not being able to find any drapes to go with the old paint. She said Charles had a good “role model” for fixing up around the house because Bill, Dr. Shepherd, had always helped her. I thought about Daddy. He’s never done anything, as far as I can remember, inside the house. He works outside, but not inside. I don’t think Mama wants him working in the house. She certainly never lets anybody do anything in the kitchen.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles won’t do a thing outside but pull up crabgrass out of the sidewalk cracks once in a while. I don’t know why he gets such a kick out of that. I think it’s connected somehow to his strange ideas about germs. He buys these big jars of alcohol to clean the bathroom sink with. I’ve seen him through the bathroom door—through the crack. He’ll scrub around the <a id="page_69"></a>hole in the bottom of the sink with a ball of cotton soaked in alcohol. Lord knows where else he scrubs. I’ll bet he goes through a bottle of alcohol every two weeks. I go in there some mornings and it smells like County Hospital. I started to ask Millie about that but I didn’t. Maybe he got it from her. (It’s funny what all you find out about your husband after you get married.)</p>

  <p class="indent">When they finished the meeting, Charles came back to the kitchen and showed me this letter they wrote with Charles’s name signed. Charles asked me what I thought. I said if they all wrote it, why didn’t they all sign it? This is the letter. Millie told him a couple of words to change.</p>

  <p class="noindent1"><small>DEAR EDITOR:</small></p>

  <p class="indent">A state geologist has recently claimed that an area near the proposed Ferris-Jones nuclear power plant is ideal for a hazardous waste disposal site. One of the reasons given is the low population of the area. I suppose the reasoning is that if there are problems, then fewer people will suffer.</p>

  <p class="indent">It occurs to me that any reason to NOT put something in a highly populated area should also be a good reason NOT to put it in an area of low population.</p>

  <p class="indent">The sad fact is that problems of nuclear waste disposal are not solved. This generation should not be making decisions that will cause future generations to suffer horrible consequences.</p>

  <p class="right"><em>Charles Shepherd</em></p>

  <p class="indent">Charles took off work Tuesday afternoon; we took his mama to the airport; and when we got back home we had a little talk which turned into a argument.</p>

  <p class="indent">I merely asked Charles why he has to be friends with these college professors and such—why he can’t be friends with my friends. He went with me <em>once</em> to see Madora and her husband, Larry. And Sandra and Billy Ferrell have asked us over for supper twice and he wouldn’t go either time. I know they won’t ask us again.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_70"></a>“<em>These</em> people <em>think,</em>” he says.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Think?” I said. “Who <em>don’t</em> think? Everybody thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I mean think about something important, something beyond the confines of their own lives.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What is that supposed to mean?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It means getting beyond Listre and Bethel. That’s what it means. Raney, the way it works is this: small people talk about themselves; mediocre people talk about other people; and thinking people talk about ideas.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What does that have to do with anything?” I said. See, what happens is: Charles spouts out this stuff he’s read in the library and expects the words to be formed in gold in my head. But I’m sorry.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It has to do with who I want to be friends with,” says Charles. “Madora and—what’s his name?—Larry are not interested in anything outside their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll have you know,” I said, “that Madora and Larry go to Bethel Free Will Baptist Church. Don’t tell me that Jesus Christ is only in their kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The problem,” says Charles, “the whole problem is just that: Jesus wouldn’t have a kitchen, living room, and bedroom.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He would if he lived in Bethel.” I tried to let that sink in. “No matter what your mama thinks.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Why are you bringing her into this?” (I wasn’t sure.) “Raney. Jesus Christ was a radical. If the people at Bethel Free Will Baptist met Jesus they’d laugh at him . . . or lynch him.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_71"></a>“A radical? Charles, I had a personal experience with Jesus Christ when I was twelve years old. He wasn’t a radical then. And I did not laugh. As a matter of fact, I cried.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Were you saved, Raney? Is that it? Were you saved and now you’re going to heaven and nothing else matters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Charles,” I said, and I was mad, “you can run down whoever and whatever you want to, but when you run down my experience with Jesus Christ you are putting yourself below the belly of a hog.” I was tore up. I had to cry. I walked out of the kitchen, into the bedroom and slammed the door with both hands as hard as I could; and Charles goes out the front door and drives off. And didn’t come back for thirty minutes.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_8">VII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">We didn’t speak Wednesday or Thursday, but had started warming up some on Friday. Then Friday night we went to see a movie—some awful thing Charles wanted to see—and then Saturday morning the Sneeds business was all over <em>The Hansen County Pilot</em>. As I said, Sneeds runs Daddy’s store. Sneeds Perry. I don’t know him except from when I go in the store. He’s always seemed nice.</p>

  <p class="indent">What he did was get arrested in Raleigh at two <small>A.M</small>. Friday night for trying to pick up this woman he <em>thought</em> was a you-know-what but instead was a policewoman. They caught him red-handed. And then the whole subject had to come up at Sunday dinner with Mrs.—, with Millie, there visiting.</p>

  <p class="indent">She came back Saturday night on the airplane, which was <a id="page_72"></a>late, and I could of sworn I smelled liquor on her breath. Then we had to wait for all those suitcases, which we loaded into the trunk and carted home and into the guest room again.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles had found out that the Episcopal service started at 10:30 <small>A.M.</small> Sunday and that they were having that Eucharist, so they decided they’d go for sure and Millie wanted to know if I was going with them. They seemed like they wanted me to, so I said yes. I wanted to see what the service was like, if nothing else.</p>

  <p class="indent">The service was the most unusual church service you’ve ever seen. First of all, I didn’t know any of the hymns, and <em>neither did the regular people there</em>. You’d expect the regular people there to know their own hymns. They wandered all around on notes that didn’t have anything to do with the melody and, all in all, didn’t sing with any spunk. And they kept kneeling on these teenie-tiny benches. It was up and down, up and down. I got right nervous looking out the corner of my eye to see when it was up and when it was down.</p>

  <p class="indent">The priest had a yellow robe with a butterfly on the back. Now that is plum sacrilegious if you ask me. A house of worship is no place to play Halloween.</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the most surprising things of all was that the very thing you come to church to hear wasn’t there. A sermon. There was no sermon. The priest talked about three minutes on hope and people in the ghettos, which may have been a sermon to him, but not to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">They had the Lord’s supper, but they didn’t pass it around. You had to go up front, kneel down (of course), and get it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was a little nervous about drinking real wine in church. But when I thought about it I ended up figuring maybe that <a id="page_73"></a>was the best place to do it and God would forgive me. It was red wine and about knocked my socks off. It was stronger somehow than Madora’s white wine and that expensive stuff that I tried in the kitchen at Charles’s TEA party. (That bottle had the price tag on it. Six dollars and something. It seemed like to me it should have cost less because it kind of disappeared once you got it in your mouth.) I want you to know the priest gulped down every bit that was left over at the end. That was an education to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">All in all, it just wasn’t <em>set up</em> like a church service. I must admit, several people were nice after the service, but most of them had Yankee accents. They were probably people who’ve come down to work at the new G.E. plant outside White Level.</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles said he liked it—that it was “formal.” I didn’t see anything formal about it. It was confusing to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi and Aunt Flossie were at Mama’s for Sunday dinner, along with the rest of us. Everybody seemed happy to see Millie and she seemed likewise. I was a little tense. For one thing I was worried that the Sneeds business would come up, but I figured it wouldn’t—not at Sunday dinner.</p>

  <p class="indent">We got seated, Mama asked Charles to say the blessing; he did; and we started helping ourselves.</p>

  <p class="indent">I passed the okra to Aunt Naomi. She helped her plate and says, “You want some okra, son?” and passed the bowl to Charles. “We won’t get much more this year.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, thanks,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“No? You don’t like okra?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nope.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_74"></a>“Well, I declare. That’s surprising. Have you ever had it fried before?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I can’t remember. I don’t think so. I’ve had it boiled.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hadn’t ever fried any okra for this boy?” Mama says to Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“We’ve never been much on okra, somehow,” says Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, you ain’t had nothing until you’ve had some good fried okra,” says Aunt Naomi, and she drops a piece onto Charles’s plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I remember when I was a little girl no older than Mary Faye there,” says Aunt Naomi. “I couldn’t stand boiled okra because it was so slimy. For some reason, that’s the only way my mama ever fixed it. So I know what you mean. Then when I was, oh, about a teenager, I got aholt of some good fried okra. Mercy me—better than pop corn, with just a tiny hint of fried oyster flavor. Do you like fried oysters?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do,” said Charles. He was staring at the piece of fried okra on his plate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Pop corn?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, then, you’ll love fried okra. Go ahead, try it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Aw, go ahead. You’ll love it; I guarantee. Then when you go home your mama can fix it for you, can’t you, Millie?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles ate the piece of okra. It <em>was</em> good okra.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Now, ain’t that good?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It was pretty good,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Naomi gets the bowl and hands it to Charles. “Well, here, get you out some.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_75"></a>“No thanks,” said Charles. “I’m just fine. I really don’t care for any.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I declare,” says Aunt Naomi. “I’m surprised. I thought for sure you’d love it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Charles put the bowl back and Daddy asked him if he saw the Braves game Saturday and they started talking while Aunt Naomi says, “I don’t know what I’d do without my fried okra. That and turnip salet. Why I could make a meal off turnip salet and cornbread, two meals a day for a month. There just ain’t <em>nothing</em> any better. Nothing. Doris, your favorite was always cabbage, won’t it?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I always liked turnip salet too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I hate it,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You hate everything,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do too.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do not.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll went to the Episcopal church in White Level?” says Aunt Naomi. She was looking at Millie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sure did. It was really nice.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they have a priest like the Catholics?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, they do,” said Millie. “I think their duties might be a bit different, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t they make them preach in a certain town where they assign them—like in the army?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t think they do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“They don’t,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made many a meal on turnip salet and cornbread,” says Uncle Nate. He had his hair slicked straight back, like <a id="page_76"></a>always, and was wearing a white starched shirt with the collar open. “And Aunt Annie’s nigger, Monkey—remember how he used to all the time talk about drinking turnip green pot liquor?”</p>

  <p class="indent">That got Charles’s and Millie’s attention. I was afraid Charles was going to go into his speech about saying “nigger” but he didn’t, thank goodness. And Millie didn’t, thank goodness. (Charles is sitting there with a big hunk of cream potatoes on his plate, no gravy, two pieces of chicken, a piece of roast beef, a pickle and a piece of cornbread and a roll. No vegetables. He will not get any healthy recipes from Aunt Flossie: only apple pie, fried chicken, and such. It’s a wonder he don’t get pimples—again. You can tell where he had them a little bit when he was a teenager. Pock marks. I can’t imagine how he gets his system cleaned out. It looks like somebody who works in a library would have more sense about what to eat. And Charles ain’t the type to shun new things. His mother, of course, had just the opposite: a plate full of vegetables.)</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s pot liquor?” says Charles to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate had his mouth full, which don’t usually stop him from talking—as Charles has pointed out to me on the way home so many times that now <em>I</em> notice. But this time he kept chewing and didn’t answer.</p>

  <p class="indent">Aunt Flossie answered: “It’s what’s left in the pot after cooking cabbage—usually cabbage. Course I’ve seen collard and turnip green pot liquor.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That sounds interesting,” says Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?” asks Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know,” said Uncle Nate, swallowing his potatoes, <a id="page_77"></a>“Uncle Springer took Monkey to Raleigh one Christmas to sell quail and they—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Did he <em>look</em> like a monkey?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No, that was just his name, I reckon. Anyway, they got snowed in and there was a light bulb in the room where they spent the night in somebody’s house. For some reason Monkey ended up staying with Uncle Springer in the same room. Anyway, Uncle Springer hadn’t ever seen a light bulb and of course Monkey hadn’t and they didn’t know it had a durn switch on it to cut it off and so before they went to bed—I imagine Monkey slept on the floor—before they went to bed they put a chest of drawers up on another table and some chairs and so on and put the durn light bulb—course they didn’t know it unscrewed either—they put the durn light bulb in the top drawer and closed it and then went to bed and got a good night’s sleep.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I’d heard that story once or twice but I knew Charles and Millie hadn’t. It’s a funny story but of course Charles don’t like to hear nothing about niggers unless it’s how Martin Luther King laid down in some restaurant or something. As I said, he has this thing.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wadn’t that terrible about Sneeds Perry?” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything. Somebody passed something and a few forks hit plates.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What happened to Mr. Perry?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">Nobody said anything and Norris looked around at everybody. “What happened to Mr. Perry?” he said again.</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed through my mind: Sneeds paying one of those women to do what Charles had said for us to do on our honeymoon. “He got in trouble,” I said. “For being where he ought not to be and doing what he ought not to do.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_78"></a>“What did he do?” asked Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He solicited something from a policewoman which he thought he was soliciting from a woman of the night,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“A witch?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I wouldn’t say that.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I think if a man wants to ruin his life in one night by breaking the law, then that’s the chance he takes,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Do you think he wanted to ruin his life?” said Charles. “That’s not exactly what he had in mind, do you think?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what happened,” said Aunt Naomi. “Now he won’t be able to get a job within fifty miles—at any place respectable that is. It’s a good thing he don’t have a family.” Aunt Naomi looked at Daddy. “You will have to let him go.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t decided,” said Daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy, he was arrested,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You’re going to let him keep working out at the store?” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, I hadn’t thought about—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Thurman, you read what he did.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know I read what he did. He ain’t been tried yet either.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He won’t buying peaches,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Peaches?” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “it seems like he’d hurt business with a criminal record.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s a misdemeanor, I think,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s a misdemeanor?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hush a minute, Norris,” said Mama. “It’s a minor crime.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_79"></a>“What did he do?” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He didn’t do anything that would have been a great harm to anybody,” said Charles.</p>

  <p class="indent">I thought, “<em>Charles</em>, you talk about <em>harm</em>, about <em>not harming</em>—after that on our honeymoon!”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He broke God’s law, that’s what he did,” said Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought for sure you’d fire him, Thurman,” said Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m not going to fire a man that ain’t been convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We were quiet for a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Didn’t your church group do a thing on victimless crimes?” Charles asked his mama. “It’s a pretty interesting perspective.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well, yes. The idea was, really, that some acts—without victims—ought to have a low priority on the list of things demanding law enforcement. That is, those crimes would be attended only after the crimes with victims were tended to. That way people would actually be better protected in the long run, because the police would spend more time solving robbery and assault cases and the like, and institutions like churches and mental health clinics could concentrate on the victimless crimes—given the proper support, of course.”</p>

  <p class="indent">It flashed in my mind again about what these prostitutes probably do, and I wondered if Mrs. Shepherd maybe had any idea, and I wondered what she thought about all that. She might think it’s okay! I wondered if some of Charles’s attitudes could have somehow come from her—if she had the same weakness Charles had. If Charles’s weakness came from her! I remembered her and Mr. Shepherd hugging and kissing in front of everybody at the wedding. Putting on like that. I wondered about all the connections. How can you tell? You can’t ask!</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_80"></a>“I don’t know what victims has to do with all this,” said Aunt Naomi. “You don’t need to have a victim to break the word of God.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“If a you-know-what is not a victim,” says Mama, “I don’t know who is—but I haven’t studied all that about different kinds of crimes.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Daddy,” I said, “what if he is convicted? You’ll fire him then, won’t you? I mean if he’s convicted.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t see what difference it makes whether he’s convicted. He done it. Anybody knows that,” says Aunt Naomi.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Well,” says Daddy. “I’d want to wait and see what happens.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I had never thought about Daddy keeping somebody on the job who’d do something like that. But the problem is: it didn’t seem to make any difference to about half the table sitting in my own mama’s house for Sunday dinner, every one kin to me in some way. I don’t understand why people won’t take a stand where they ought to. Especially my own daddy.</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s your store,” says Mama.</p>

  <p class="indent">Things got quiet again, except for forks hitting on dishes and Uncle Nate chewing with his mouth open.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Millie, did you hear about Norris getting the fishing hook hung in his nose at the beach?” said Aunt Flossie.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes, I did. Charles told me on the phone. That must have been something. Were you afraid, Norris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was afraid when it first happened. I thought a bird or something had flew up my nose.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We all laughed and then Uncle Nate told about the time one of Uncle Springer’s boys told his little brother to stick his tongue to a froze ax. We’d all heard it but Millie and Charles hadn’t. That got Uncle Nate into telling about the first car <a id="page_81"></a>Uncle Springer ever saw that had a rear view mirror on the inside and Uncle Springer says, “I comb <em>my</em> hair <em>before</em> I leave home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Springer was the one who was so bashful that on his wedding night he peed down his leg into the pot so he wouldn’t make any noise. So they <em>say</em>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The stories eased the tension some. For me, anyway. We finished eating; Mama and Aunt Flossie cleaned up; then we sat and talked for awhile. At about two-thirty we left and drove home. I could tell Charles was getting tired of sitting and talking. Then at about five o’clock we took Millie and those big suitcases to the airport.</p>

  <p class="indent">Just before she got on the plane, she gave me a big hug and a kiss. I hugged her back but didn’t have time to figure out where to kiss her before we’d turned each other loose. I’ve just never hugged and kissed people I don’t know real well. Or people I do know real well, for that matter.</p>

  <h3 class="h3" id="heading_id_9">VIII</h3>

  <p class="noindent">It won’t Sneeds they arrested. It was Sam Perry, Sneeds’s first cousin. The newspaper got it mixed up because Sam signed Sneeds’s name and gave Sneeds’s address, and at the police station he actually had the driver’s license that Sneeds thought he’d lost. Daddy said Sam told Sneeds he didn’t want his wife and kids to find out and he figured Sneeds wouldn’t mind. Sneeds told Daddy that Sam had done the same thing before and so he wadn’t too surprised. I can’t believe somebody would do something like that to their own cousin.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_82"></a>I was in the store Saturday morning trying to figure out whether I should mention the whole thing to Sneeds when Charles called and said to call Mama. I did, and she wanted to know if I could come over and stay with Norris and Mary Faye that afternoon while she went to sit with Uncle Newton—while Aunt Minnie helped with the church barbecue. Aunt Minnie is Daddy’s sister and has had an awful time taking care of Uncle Newton. She has to stay with him all the time. Charles was supposed to play tennis that afternoon with somebody from the library, so I said I’d be glad to come over and help out.</p>

  <p class="indent">The only reason Mama wanted me to stay is because Uncle Nate had disappeared for two days and she was afraid he might come riding up in a Yellow Cab, drunk, with nobody at home but Mary Faye and Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">So I went over Saturday at about two. Right before Mama drove off she blew the police whistle for Mary Faye and Norris, who were up the road at Teresa Campbell’s house, to come on home. When she saw them coming—on their bicycles—she got in the car and drove off.</p>

  <p class="indent">She was just out of sight around the curve when Norris, going about fifty miles an hour, turned, or tried to turn, into the driveway—on his Piggly Wiggly Special (that bike he won at the Piggly Wiggly opening: with a row of little red glass rubies up and down the fenders, and a saddle bag, and black rubber mud flaps, and sticking right out front under where the handlebars come together, this solid cast, little brown and white pig head). He had just passed Mary Faye, <a id="page_83"></a>going as fast as he could, standing up. Then he sat back down and turned about one foot short of the edge of the driveway. The front wheel dipped into the ditch; the bike stopped; and he made a arc through the air—landing full on his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">When I got to him he was sitting on the ground looking at his right hand like he’d never seen it before. His thumb was drooped down like a broke tree limb, and where it connected to his hand looked like a golf ball.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye was standing there. “That thumb is broke, Norris. You can’t move it, can you?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris looked up at her, then at me, then at his thumb, and started bawling. I gathered myself as best I could. “Come on,” I said. “We’ll take you to emergency, right now. Do you hurt anywhere else?” All I could do was take him to the emergency room. That was the only thing to do. His hand looked awful.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris said No he wadn’t hurting anywhere else, and stood up slow, crying, holding his hurt hand up and in front with his other hand like he was carrying a bunch of flowers.</p>

  <p class="indent">We hadn’t walked no more than ten steps when a Yellow Cab pulls into the driveway. It was like the ocean had pulled in and was about to drown everything. I just stopped and stood there. “Oh <em>no</em>,” says Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ya’ll stay right here,” I said. It was clear I had to take over. I’d have to do what Mama would do, which was take over. I walked to the driver’s side of the taxi. The driver was a pale little man with short red and gray hair, a scrawny mustache, and no teeth. “Howdy,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Howdy, ma’am.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I looked through at Uncle Nate sitting on the passenger side. His head was down like he was asleep. “Uncle Nate, you <a id="page_84"></a>ought to be ashamed of yourself.” He didn’t even look up. “Mary Faye, ya’ll go on up and sit down on the porch. No, wait a minute. Go in and call Aunt Minnie and tell her to tell Mama, when she gets there, to come back home and sit with Uncle Nate—that it looks like Norris broke his thumb and I got to take him to emergency. Tell her his thumb is all that’s hurt. Tell her it might just be out of place. Ask Aunt Minnie if she minds being a little late for the barbecue.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I don’t know the number.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“It’s in that address thing—under Minnie.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir,” I said to the cab driver. “Can you wait one minute while I figure out what to do?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“No problem. Meter’s running.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, I ought to call the sheriff right now. If I didn’t have to take care of Norris, I would.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate looked up. “Where’s Doris at?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s on the way to Aunt Minnie’s, to sit with Uncle Newton.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How’s ole Newt?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s okay, I guess. He’s <em>sober</em>. That’s for sure.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Me and Newt were in the war together,” Uncle Nate said to the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, he don’t care. Can you get out? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. I’m in the middle of Norris’s broke thumb and here you show up, drunk, and probably without one cent. Have you got any money?”</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate stuck his hand down in his front pocket.</p>

  <p class="indent">“He said his sister would pay,” said the cab driver.</p>

  <p class="indent">“That’s what I figured,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mary Faye came out. “The line’s busy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris was sitting on the front steps. He started crying, and <a id="page_85"></a>then hollering. “Oh, it’s starting to hurt! Ohhhh!” He was holding his hand down between his legs, rocking back and forth, looking at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Elevate it—hold it up,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“They might have to take it off,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was standing there in the front yard, knowing I had to make a decision. I decided Uncle Nate would have to go to the emergency room with us. There was nothing else to do. I went around to the passenger side and opened the door. Or I could call the sheriff. Or I could send him over to Uncle Newton’s in the taxi and let Mama look after him. No, that would get Uncle Newton all upset. But Uncle Nate was about asleep. That was good. I figured if he’d stay in the car at emergency, everything would be okay.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Sir, would you please help me get him in the back seat of my car over there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yeah, I’ll help,” said the cab driver. “That’s a broke thumb if ever I seen one.” He’d caught a glimpse of Norris’s thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know. I’ve got to get him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We got Uncle Nate out of the taxi and into the back seat of my car. He went right on down, laying on his side in the seat with his feet in the floor. His shirt tail was out on the side and his hair was pushed up in back with little flecks of white thread or something all in there.</p>

  <p class="indent">I paid the taxi driver; Norris and Mary Faye got in the car, up front with me.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris stopped crying about halfway to the emergency room, and when we turned into the hospital driveway, Uncle Nate sat up. “Is Newt up here?” he said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Newton’s at home, Uncle Nate. Norris hurt his thumb and we’re having to take him to emergency.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_86"></a>“Less see that thumb, boy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris held up his thumb.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Oh, that ain’t nothing.” He leaned up right behind me. “Raney.” I could smell his breath. I was almost afraid of him. I had this flash thought of him grabbing me around the neck, although Uncle Nate is normally pretty gentle, drunk or sober, except when he’s drunk and gets mad and cusses. “Raney, where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at Uncle Newton’s. I told you a minute ago.”</p>

  <p class="indent">We pulled the car up close to the emergency room door and stopped. “Now, Uncle Nate, you stay right here. I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Does Mary Faye and Norris remember me and Newt were in the war together?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yessir,” I said. “Now please stay in the the back seat, Uncle Nate. Will you do that? I’ll be right back.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I certainly will. You know I love you, Raney.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I got out and came around and opened the door for Norris. He had stopped crying. He got out, holding his hand up with that thumb dangling, and we all started in, except for Uncle Nate. I looked back. He was sitting with his head slumped over.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got to the emergency room door, I said, “Mary Faye, stand right here at the door, and if Uncle Nate gets out of the car, you come in and tell me.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I want to go in.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Mary Faye.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I won’t know where you’re at,” she said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney, what are they going to do to it?” says Norris, looking up at me with bloodshot eyes.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Norris.” I looked at Mary Faye. “Do what you have to do, Mary Faye—for goodness sakes. They’re going to fix it, Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_87"></a>We all three went in through the door. Some people were sitting in chairs and there was a big nurse across the room at a desk. Two nigger orderlies were sitting behind her—smoking cigarettes and wearing those little green scarf hats with strings hanging down beside their ears.</p>

  <p class="indent">We walked up to the desk. The nurse asked a bunch of questions and about time I finished answering them all I hear this loud, banging crash behind me at the door. I look, and there’s Uncle Nate: sitting on the floor, half in and half out the emergency room door. Some woman wearing a dress, brown shoes, and white socks jumped up and rushed over to him. I started toward him, but Norris almost hollered, “Raney, wait a minute, what are they going to do? It hurts!” The orderlies stood up to look at Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">The woman with white socks said, “This man needs help! His eyeballs is rolled back!” The orderlies started running toward Uncle Nate, pushing a table-bed. I heard the woman say, “I think he had a stroke,” and before I could say anything—Norris was holding on to my arm with his good hand—the orderlies had Uncle Nate on the bed, rolling him right by me. “Wait a minute, he’s my uncle!” I said. They stopped. And here Uncle Nate sort of came around and started cussing the orderlies terrible.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate stop that right now or I’m going to call Dorcus Kerr to come get you and take you to jail. You all unstrap him from there.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“That woman said he had a stroke,” said one orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Don’t let him off there,” said the other one.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I thought you were with this boy,” said the nurse to me.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_88"></a>“Raney, I don’t want to get it operated on,” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“You <em>better</em> be <em>quiet</em>,” said Mary Faye.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m with both of them,” I said to the nurse. “This one’s drunk; he didn’t have a stroke.”</p>

  <p class="indent">One of the orderlies pulled a strap tighter on Uncle Nate. Uncle Nate was cussing him awful. “And where you got Newt?” he said to the one closest to his head.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I ain’t got no Newt. What you talking about, man?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Young woman, we’re not equipped to handle alcoholism,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I didn’t bring him to the emergency room,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Who brought this man?” said the nurse to everybody in the emergency room. Then she said to me. “Is your mother here?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m twenty-four years old,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Norris pulled at my arm. The woman with the white socks came walking up. “I thought he might a had a stroke,” she said. “His eyes was rolled back and all. It was that way with my granddaddy. He had a stroke last year and when—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I brought him,” I said, “but I left him in the car and—”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Raney!” said Norris.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Somebody has to take care of his thumb,” I said to the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I got papers in on him,” said the nurse. “The doctor will be here in a minute.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“How do you feel?” said the woman with socks—to Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel like if I don’t get off this goddamned table in five seconds, I’m gone whip ass when I do.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m gonna strap your ass down so tight your eyeballs’ll pop out,” said the orderly. “Then I’m calling the police.”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_89"></a>“<em>I’ll</em> call the law,” I said. “You don’t know who to call.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“The hell I don’t.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Wait a minute, Jerry,” said the nurse. “I’ll call Security.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Call the goddamned Security,” said Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="indent">There was Mary Faye and Norris standing there hearing all that.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate, please be quiet. You’re in trouble. Don’t make it worse.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I was in trouble when I was born.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Not like you gonna be,” said the orderly.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Stop egging him on,” I said.</p>

  <p class="indent">Up walked the doctor, thank the Lord. The nurse was on the phone: “Donald, send somebody to emergency. We’ve got a man disturbing the peace.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“What’s his name?” said the doctor. He was picking up a clipboard.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Ask her,” said the nurse.</p>

  <p class="indent">The doctor looked at me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Uncle Nate,” I said. “Nate Purvis.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s your uncle?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Let me see that thumb, Nate.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s Norris.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Norris,” Norris said, his eyes great big.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Excuse me, Norris. Let me see that thumb.” He held Norris by the wrist and turned his hand around. “Hummm. Let’s go get an x-ray. <em>This</em> man is your uncle, then,” he said to me.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Yes sir, and he’s drunk. He shouldn’t even be in here. I left him outside.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Have you got a car?”</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_90"></a>“Yes sir.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m Joe Cisco,” he said. He smiled and reached out his hand. “Looks like you could use a little help.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I took his hand, tried my best to hold back, but I couldn’t help crying. I straightened right back up though.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ll be right back and we can get him in your car,” he said. Then he took Norris down the hall; Norris looked back over his shoulder—still holding that hand up like he was carrying flowers; the nurse asked the orderlies to sit down; and then Dr. Cisco came back while they were taking the x-ray. He helped me roll Uncle Nate to the car, then get him off the table and in the back seat—with no trouble, since Uncle Nate had passed out. I saw the empty pint in Uncle Nate’s back pocket. I hadn’t thought to look before. When a security guard walked up, Dr. Cisco explained that everything was all right. Dr. Cisco was a blessing from heaven.</p>

  <p class="indent">He told us to wait in the car and that after he took care of Norris he’d bring him out. Sometimes I get to thinking there’s not one nice person left in the world and then somebody like Dr. Cisco comes along.</p>

  <p class="indent">It turned out that Norris’s thumb was just out of place. It must have been very out of place. Dr. Cisco taped it up over a piece of metal and told me to bring him back in a week unless a problem came up. He stood there at the car and talked a minute.</p>

  <p class="indent">Uncle Nate won’t so simple. He begged me to take him to the liquor store, saying he just needed one more little drink to hold him over. I did not take him, of course.</p>

  <p class="indent">When we got home he was asleep or passed out. I left him in the car while I called Mama. She called Juanita Bowles to come sit with Uncle Newton and then came on home. We had a terrible time getting Uncle Nate up the front steps.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_91"></a>Daddy came home right after we got Uncle Nate in the door. “Nate, you’re going to get drunk one time too many and get robbed <em>and</em> shot instead of just robbed,” said Daddy. Uncle Nate’s billfold is always empty when he comes home drunk. Uncle Nate started cussing Daddy, which is the first time that’s ever happened, as far as I know.</p>

  <p class="indent">Mama called Dorcus Kerr who came out and arrested Uncle Nate. There was nothing else to do. Uncle Nate spent three days in jail, drying out. That’s how long it takes. Mama took him every one of his meals except his last one which was Tuesday lunch. I had to be uptown anyway so I told Mama I could do it and then bring him home when they let him out at three in the afternoon. I’m old enough now.</p>

  <p class="indent">Dorcus Kerr was at the jail. “I declare, I hate to see this happen, Raney,” he said. “When he’s sober he’s one of the nicest men I know, but I declare, then he has to go and do the way he does; and you all have always been so good to him—your daddy giving him work and all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I didn’t see anybody else in any of the jail cells except Uncle Nate. He was sitting in a chair, leaning back against the wall. His hair was combed straight back with Vitalis, like always, and he was wearing a freshly starched white shirt Mama had brought him. Mr. Kerr opened the door with a big set of keys.</p>

  <p class="indent">“Hey, girl,” said Uncle Nate. “Where’s Doris?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She’s at home.”</p>

  <p class="indent">He looked okay except for his eyes which were red and cloudy.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_92"></a>“How do you feel?” I asked.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I feel pretty good. Raney, I’m sorry. You know I wouldn’t do anything in the world to hurt you all.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I know you wouldn’t, Uncle Nate.” I started to say, “But you <em>do—over and over and over.</em>” Then I saw his hand shaking while he pulled at his ear.</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’ve made a decision this time. I’m quitting. I’m getting the shakes. Look at my hands. I can’t get them any stiller than that. I’m just going to have to tell myself to quit and then do it.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“You know you can’t take that first drink, Uncle Nate. It’s all over when you do that. You’ve got to have the strength to say no. There’s plenty of people who do it. And Mama has done everything she can, as you well know.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“She has. She has. She sure has.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“I’m glad you’re going to stop, Uncle Nate. You’ve said that before, though.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“This is the first time I’ve had the shakes like this. Look at that.” He looked at his hands, then at me. “How is Newton? Didn’t somebody take him to the hospital Sunday—or Saturday?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Nobody took him to the hospital, but he’s not doing too good. That was Norris I took. He knocked his thumb out of joint, but it’s doing okay.”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He’s a little fighter, ain’t he?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“He sure is. Here, you better eat your dinner. I’ll be back at three. I need to do a little shopping. You need anything?”</p>

  <p class="indent">“Some Scholl’s footpads. Size 9-C.”</p>

  <p class="indent">I came back at three and picked up Uncle Nate and took him by home and then on out to the store. He usually works <a id="page_93"></a>out there in the afternoons. He’s never been able to do any more than just help out, of course, but it helps Daddy be able to come and go and oversee instead of being there with Sneeds all the time—one of them tending pumps while the other works inside. When Daddy had a chance to get all self-service pumps he turned them down, so he needs Uncle Nate.</p>

  <p class="noindent"><a id="page_94"></a></p>
</body>
</html>
2023-06-14 20:43:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-14 20:43:15 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-06-14 20:43:16 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-06-14 20:43:17 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:19 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:20 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:21 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:23 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:43:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:43:24 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-06-14 20:43:45 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-14 20:43:45 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@70fbc8a0
