2023-05-22 20:16:46 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-05-22 20:16:46 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-05-22 20:17:29 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-05-22 20:17:29 INFO  - Session id - d2eac2fc293f527f8eac5a01a4ce23d593108c24
2023-05-22 20:17:29 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-05-22 20:17:29 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:32 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-05-22 20:17:33 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-05-22 20:17:33 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:34 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-05-22 20:17:37 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-05-22 20:17:37 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-05-22 20:17:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-05-22 20:17:43 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:46 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-05-22 20:17:46 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:47 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:49 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:52 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-05-22 20:17:52 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:54 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:57 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:17:58 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-05-22 20:17:58 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: The Critique of Practical Reason Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: How to Connect Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@4b7d7e60
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: Yoke Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: The Columbarium Distributor: BiblioBoard
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: The Black Swan of Paris Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Legends of the North Cascades Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@2cb92039
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: These Precious Days Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: Down the Hatch Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: A Line to Kill Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: The 500 Years of Indigenous Resistance Comic Book: Revised and Expanded Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: My Year Abroad Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - bookName: The Sentence Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 11
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-05-22 20:17:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-05-22 20:18:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-05-22 20:18:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-05-22 20:18:05 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:18:17 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:18:18 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-05-22 20:18:39 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:18:40 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-05-22 20:18:40 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:19:01 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-05-22 20:19:21 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:19:24 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-05-22 20:19:24 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-05-22 20:19:24 INFO  - randomBookName: The Crooked Castle
2023-05-22 20:19:24 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-22 20:19:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Crooked Castle'
2023-05-22 20:19:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-22 20:19:30 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-22 20:19:31 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:19:32 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:19:40 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-22 20:19:41 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:19:41 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:19:42 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-05-22 20:19:43 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:19:44 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-05-22 20:19:44 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-05-22 20:20:19 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-05-22 20:20:20 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-22 20:20:20 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-05-22 20:20:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-22 20:20:21 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>The Crooked Castle: Carmer and Grit, Book Two</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="intro" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
			<p id="_idParaDest-1" class="CT"><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>THE <em class="Yana-ital">JASCONIUS</em></p>
			<p class="COT">The day the <em class="Yana-ital">Jasconius</em> crashed, the cabin boy was late for his shift. He was <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">never</em> late.</p>
			<p class="T">He was never late because he loved his job. He loved his ship and every moment he spent on it, soaring over the ocean from one continent to the other. The <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">Jasconius</em> was one of only three transatlantic airships in the world, making the journey from London to Driftside City, Virginia, every few weeks like clockwork. How many young men could say they flew across the ocean not once in their life, not even twice, but a dozen times a year? How many could say they lived in an impossible thing, a machine great and powerful enough to defy gravity itself, with nothing but open skies ahead and the wind at their backs? </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy knew he was lucky. But his luck was about to turn.</p>
			<p class="T">That day, he was late <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">because </em>he loved the ship. He’d been coming off a shift with strict orders to report straight to the crew quarters and <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">get some sleep, young man</em>. But he knew the ship would be docking in the early morning, and he didn’t want to miss the first sight of land for anything in the world. He wanted to be the first one to see it, to feel that little jolt that came with every landing after a few days over open water—the miraculous reminder that they’d made it, that there was a world beyond the endless blue below. So he nodded to his superior officer, quickly changed into his civilian clothes, and tucked himself into his favorite secluded nook on the observation deck to watch the sunrise. It was a tight fit these days—he was still getting taller every year—but he managed. </p>
			<p class="T">He hadn’t meant to fall asleep. </p>
			<p class="T">When he woke up, they were already preparing to land. He’d missed his first glimpse of his favorite city in the world. And something felt wrong. </p>
			<p class="T">But there were no shouts of alarm, no explosions, no panicked passengers clinging to the railings as the ship reeled. In fact, all was quiet. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy stretched and crept out of his nook, surprising a few early-bird passengers nibbling at their breakfasts on the observation deck. He mumbled his apologies and distractedly brushed past them, determined to both find the source of his unease and sneak back to his quarters without being seen. He’d overslept in his hiding spot, and he’d be in for a dressing-down if he showed up for duty late <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">and</em> out of uniform. </p>
			<p class="T">He took a shortcut along the keel catwalk, waving to a few other crew members as he hurried past. But a moment later he was alone, with only the hum of the engines to keep him company. The corridor was deserted, and it should not have been so. Not when they were preparing to land.</p>
			<p class="T">“Hello?” called the cabin boy. He shivered. The air was chilly, but the steam pumping through the pipes in the ship’s envelope should have been keeping them all warm. He slowed down, though he couldn’t say why, and made his way toward the hatch that led to the engine car. The crew would be hard at work coordinating the landing. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy slipped and fell, too quickly to even reach out and catch himself. He lay there on the cold metal floor of the catwalk, a wetness seeping into his back. He sat up, groaning at the bruises already blossoming on his elbows, and rubbed the back of his head. He put a hand to the ground, and his fingers couldn’t quite believe what they were feeling. </p>
			<p class="T">He’d slipped on a patch of ice. </p>
			<p class="T">This was impossible, of course. He looked around for any source of water—a leaky pipe, a spilled bucket abandoned by someone who had been cleaning, but there was nothing. He slowly got up. A trail of the stuff led all the way to the hatch. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy knew he should turn around and get help straightaway, because something was clearly not right. But his feet seemed to move forward of their own accord, carefully dodging the slippery patches. His breath fogged in the air.</p>
			<p class="T">When the young woman darted in front of him, he nearly fell again. </p>
			<p class="T">“Miss, excuse me!” he said, trying to remember his professional courtesies. “Passengers aren’t allowed back here!”</p>
			<p class="T">But then she was gone, only the ghost of a laugh in her wake, and he couldn’t be sure there’d been anyone standing there at all. He shook his head, like he was trying to clear cobwebs out of his brain, when suddenly his face was trapped in the grip of cold, pale hands. </p>
			<p class="T">“Oh, don’t worry,” said the young woman. She looked like a girl, really—except for her eyes. There was something older in their gray depths. Something darker. “I’m not a passenger.”</p>
			<p class="T">The boy staggered back, but her icy hands had already clawed up into his hair, fingers snagging in his short, tight curls. </p>
			<p class="T">“You should probably run,” she said, staring straight into his eyes. “Run, little boy, and don’t look back.”</p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy ran. He didn’t remember much after that. </p>
	</body>
</html>
2023-05-22 20:20:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-22 20:20:22 INFO  - Step 16 - Open font settings
2023-05-22 20:20:22 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:20:23 INFO  - Step 17 - INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-05-22 20:20:23 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:20:24 INFO  - Step 18 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-05-22 20:20:24 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-22 20:20:24 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-05-22 20:20:26 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-22 20:20:27 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>The Crooked Castle: Carmer and Grit, Book Two</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="intro" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
			<p id="_idParaDest-1" class="CT"><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>THE <em class="Yana-ital">JASCONIUS</em></p>
			<p class="COT">The day the <em class="Yana-ital">Jasconius</em> crashed, the cabin boy was late for his shift. He was <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">never</em> late.</p>
			<p class="T">He was never late because he loved his job. He loved his ship and every moment he spent on it, soaring over the ocean from one continent to the other. The <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">Jasconius</em> was one of only three transatlantic airships in the world, making the journey from London to Driftside City, Virginia, every few weeks like clockwork. How many young men could say they flew across the ocean not once in their life, not even twice, but a dozen times a year? How many could say they lived in an impossible thing, a machine great and powerful enough to defy gravity itself, with nothing but open skies ahead and the wind at their backs? </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy knew he was lucky. But his luck was about to turn.</p>
			<p class="T">That day, he was late <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">because </em>he loved the ship. He’d been coming off a shift with strict orders to report straight to the crew quarters and <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">get some sleep, young man</em>. But he knew the ship would be docking in the early morning, and he didn’t want to miss the first sight of land for anything in the world. He wanted to be the first one to see it, to feel that little jolt that came with every landing after a few days over open water—the miraculous reminder that they’d made it, that there was a world beyond the endless blue below. So he nodded to his superior officer, quickly changed into his civilian clothes, and tucked himself into his favorite secluded nook on the observation deck to watch the sunrise. It was a tight fit these days—he was still getting taller every year—but he managed. </p>
			<p class="T">He hadn’t meant to fall asleep. </p>
			<p class="T">When he woke up, they were already preparing to land. He’d missed his first glimpse of his favorite city in the world. And something felt wrong. </p>
			<p class="T">But there were no shouts of alarm, no explosions, no panicked passengers clinging to the railings as the ship reeled. In fact, all was quiet. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy stretched and crept out of his nook, surprising a few early-bird passengers nibbling at their breakfasts on the observation deck. He mumbled his apologies and distractedly brushed past them, determined to both find the source of his unease and sneak back to his quarters without being seen. He’d overslept in his hiding spot, and he’d be in for a dressing-down if he showed up for duty late <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">and</em> out of uniform. </p>
			<p class="T">He took a shortcut along the keel catwalk, waving to a few other crew members as he hurried past. But a moment later he was alone, with only the hum of the engines to keep him company. The corridor was deserted, and it should not have been so. Not when they were preparing to land.</p>
			<p class="T">“Hello?” called the cabin boy. He shivered. The air was chilly, but the steam pumping through the pipes in the ship’s envelope should have been keeping them all warm. He slowed down, though he couldn’t say why, and made his way toward the hatch that led to the engine car. The crew would be hard at work coordinating the landing. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy slipped and fell, too quickly to even reach out and catch himself. He lay there on the cold metal floor of the catwalk, a wetness seeping into his back. He sat up, groaning at the bruises already blossoming on his elbows, and rubbed the back of his head. He put a hand to the ground, and his fingers couldn’t quite believe what they were feeling. </p>
			<p class="T">He’d slipped on a patch of ice. </p>
			<p class="T">This was impossible, of course. He looked around for any source of water—a leaky pipe, a spilled bucket abandoned by someone who had been cleaning, but there was nothing. He slowly got up. A trail of the stuff led all the way to the hatch. </p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy knew he should turn around and get help straightaway, because something was clearly not right. But his feet seemed to move forward of their own accord, carefully dodging the slippery patches. His breath fogged in the air.</p>
			<p class="T">When the young woman darted in front of him, he nearly fell again. </p>
			<p class="T">“Miss, excuse me!” he said, trying to remember his professional courtesies. “Passengers aren’t allowed back here!”</p>
			<p class="T">But then she was gone, only the ghost of a laugh in her wake, and he couldn’t be sure there’d been anyone standing there at all. He shook his head, like he was trying to clear cobwebs out of his brain, when suddenly his face was trapped in the grip of cold, pale hands. </p>
			<p class="T">“Oh, don’t worry,” said the young woman. She looked like a girl, really—except for her eyes. There was something older in their gray depths. Something darker. “I’m not a passenger.”</p>
			<p class="T">The boy staggered back, but her icy hands had already clawed up into his hair, fingers snagging in his short, tight curls. </p>
			<p class="T">“You should probably run,” she said, staring straight into his eyes. “Run, little boy, and don’t look back.”</p>
			<p class="T">The cabin boy ran. He didn’t remember much after that. </p>
	</body>
</html>
2023-05-22 20:20:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-22 20:20:27 INFO  - Step 19 - Restart app
2023-05-22 20:20:53 INFO  - Step 20 - Open Books
2023-05-22 20:20:53 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:20:53 INFO  - Step 21 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-05-22 20:21:14 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:21:35 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-05-22 20:21:36 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-05-22 20:21:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:21:41 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:21:43 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:21:44 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:21:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:21:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:21:48 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-05-22 20:22:09 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-22 20:22:09 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-05-22 20:22:09 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1687892f
