2023-09-02 03:46:06 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-09-02 03:46:06 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-02 03:46:31 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-02 03:46:31 INFO  - Session id - 8ff62cb9d42abe7f14678e9585c88248f32e3953
2023-09-02 03:46:31 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-02 03:46:31 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:34 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-02 03:46:34 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-02 03:46:34 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:34 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-02 03:46:35 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-02 03:46:35 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 03:46:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-02 03:46:39 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:39 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-02 03:46:39 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:41 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:41 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:43 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-02 03:46:43 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:43 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:44 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:45 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:45 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-09-02 03:46:45 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Milk and Honey Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@3369c42e
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - bookName: The Will to Change Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - bookName: Animal Instinct Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: The Sympathizer Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@444f7643
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: The Sentence Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@7cfc6da1
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: The Song of Achilles Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@249ff8c2
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 03:46:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-09-02 03:46:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 03:46:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-02 03:46:50 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:46:56 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:46:56 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-02 03:47:17 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:47:17 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-02 03:47:17 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:47:38 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-02 03:47:58 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:00 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-02 03:48:00 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-09-02 03:48:00 INFO  - randomBookName: A Spark of Light
2023-09-02 03:48:00 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 03:48:00 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'A Spark of Light'
2023-09-02 03:48:03 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 03:48:06 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 03:48:06 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:48:07 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:13 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 03:48:13 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:48:14 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:14 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-02 03:48:16 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:16 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-02 03:48:16 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-02 03:48:30 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-09-02 03:48:30 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-02 03:48:30 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-02 03:48:31 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 03:48:31 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Chapter 1</title>
  <link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:b7df362e-bbc7-4735-aff8-86e5cebdd362" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body class="content">
  <div class="element element-container-single element-bodymatter element-type-chapter element-with-heading" id="chapter-1">
    <div class="heading heading-with-title heading-without-image" id="chapter-1-heading">
      <div class="heading-contents">
        <div class="title-subtitle-block title-block-title-is-element-number">
          <div class="element-number-block">
          </div>
          <div class="title-block">
            <h1 class="title">Chapter One</h1>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="text" id="chapter-1-text">
      <p class="first first-in-chapter first-full-width">I walked in to see Gavin strung up in the center of the room, naked. He could smell my emotions, so I couldn’t let even an ounce of doubt into my psyche. I focused on my righteous anger — generally not a healthy place to put your energy, but it would have to do for now. Gavin had raped my mind. He <i>deserved</i> to have his mind raped. I had a right to be pissed.</p>
      <p class="subsq">The playroom equipment in the coterie house was built to hold the strongest vampire, so there was no doubt the shackles, spreader bars, and chains would hold the ancient, surly, sexy-as-sin bloodsucker. With a long spreader bar between his ankle shackles, another between his wrists, and chains leading to the ceiling and floor stretching him taut, he could hide <i>nothing</i>.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I needed him to feel vulnerable. Open. No place to hide.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d requested one of the big, comfortable arm chairs upstairs be brought down and put before Gavin, and I let my heels click across the floor on my way to it. I sat as if I were in my office, about to begin a session with a client.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cora walked the room before taking her spot near the door. A nod let me know she’d checked for electronic monitoring devices and we were clear.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I looked at the vampire and held his gaze. “Tell me about the woman who turned you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin glared at me.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I’m guessing it was a woman. Was it a man?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Incidentally, I asked Abbott to pay my standard therapist fees for the night. Anything you tell me is protected by doctor-patient privilege. My guards have all signed non-disclosure agreements, so they can’t share information they overhear, which means Cora can’t tell what she hears, either.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I glanced at Cora, who stood just inside the door with her arms crossed. Gavin could feel her but couldn’t see her. His Master had ordered him to stay out of our heads, but I still worried he’d take us over. My shields were stronger with Cora close, but this meant he’d hurt us both if he tore into my head again.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d never get through the night if I focused on the possibility though, so I kept going.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Since Gavin has a thing for natural fabrics, I’d worn a silk blouse with heavy, silky rayon dress pants and suit jacket. My hair was in a French twist, though I’d debated far longer than was probably healthy about how to wear it. I was approaching this first part of the evening as a therapist, so I’d look the part.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Now, I crossed my legs and noted the way his body tensed. His dick was soft, but my instincts told me not to mess with him sexually. Today was about making sure Gavin feared and respected me enough to never risk earning my wrath again, but it was also about fixing our relationship. This powerful vampire hated me and wanted to get rid of me — I needed to assure him I wasn’t a threat to Abbott while convincing him he didn’t want to mess with me or mine <i>ever</i> again.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I keyed into his aura and tried to find his vibration. His frequency. It seemed all over the place, though I could sense the walls he had up.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You’ve learned things about me. Private things. Personal shit. Tell me about the vampire who turned you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Still nothing.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Tell me about your mother.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The flash of emotions across his face told me I’d hit the motherload. So to speak.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Tell me.” I let it be an order with a hint of a threat.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He shook his head, but he met my gaze and finally spoke. “I was born in Dacia — now known as Romania. My father grew ill and died when I was seven. I had four siblings, and my mother couldn’t feed us without…” He stopped, started again. “It was better to sacrifice one child than to watch them all starve. She sold me into slavery when I was eight. The man who bought me liked boys. He kept me until I was probably twelve or thirteen — I lost track of the years once I was a slave. The first man who owned me had his moments of cruelty, but most of the time he was kind. So long as I complied and… <i>performed</i> as he expected, life wasn’t terrible.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">A single-shouldered shrug, but he continued without any prodding. “My next owner liked teens. I refused to call him <i>daddy</i>. I held out five days before he broke me. I’m certain he enjoyed torturing me, and I’m just as certain he remembered it fondly every time he heard the word <i>daddy</i> come from my lips in the following years. He kept me perhaps three years before I grew too old for his tastes, and he sold me to a brothel. Dacia and Greece share a lot in their…” A sigh, and his eyes remained focused on a spot over my head. “I was fucked by a lot of men at the brothel. I wasn’t with a woman while with my first two owners — I never had the chance. I fell in love with a whore-slave close to my age within weeks of being sold to the brothel. We were caught fucking and punished. We didn’t own our sexuality and were supposed to keep it available for paying customers.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He met my gaze again, his eyes hard, his expressionless face a wall of granite.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“It was a long time ago,” I said. “You’re pissed at me for making you remember, but you’re only giving me the bare basics. Did you ever see your mother again?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I did not.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You didn’t go looking for her after you were a vampire?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“The Master Vampire who turned me did so because he wanted to add me to his personal collection. He hired me out when he grew tired of me, recalled me when he wished for my company. I was a sex slave for another couple of hundred years. My mother was long-dead before I was in control of my destiny.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Your mother had black hair? Like you?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The muscles of his jaw flexed. “Leave her out of this.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“No. Was she pretty?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">His gaze bored into me but he must’ve realized he was giving too much away, and he focused somewhere over my head again, his face impassive. “My parents were peasants. Stocky. Strong. <i>Practical</i>. Peasants aren’t beautiful.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You’re their son, and you’re one of the most beautiful men I’ve ever seen.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“If we’re just going to talk, let me out of the shackles.” A hint of annoyance in his tone, a flash of anger in his eyes. The wall was cracking.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“No, and don’t pretend you don’t know you’re beautiful. I’m guessing it’s why she sold you instead of your siblings? She could get the most money for you? Practical in all matters.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“She did what she had to.” He wanted me to see the granite wall, but I could sense the care he was taking to look unemotional.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Did she? Was there a way for her to whore <i>herself</i> out, instead of her son?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He looked above me again, his eyes unfocused. My gut told me he was telepathing with Abbott, and I said, “<i>No</i>. Focus on me. Stay in the room. <i>With me</i>.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He closed his eyes. “Abbott is insisting I answer your questions, and reminds me I promised him I would accept punishment from you instead of him. Do what you will, but stop this incessant <i>talking</i>.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Abbott, I know you’re listening, and that’s fine, but this is between me and Gavin. I’m respectfully asking you to stop talking to him. Cut him off so he only has <i>me</i> to talk to.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin gave me the tiniest of nods, and I had a feeling it was Abbott making it happen.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I repeated my last question. “Was there a way for your mother to whore herself out, instead of selling her son and turning him into one?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">His entire body seemed to tense. A livewire. He focused over my head again but answered me this time. “She wasn’t attractive. I’m not certain she’d have brought in enough money to feed us all. For sure, she’d have had to leave us alone at night. Every night.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You’ve talked this out with someone already? Came to terms with it?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">A vicious laugh, and when he met my gaze this time, it was with a mocking, contemptuous look. “Talking is <i>bullshit</i>. She did what she had to. My suffering allowed my siblings to have a roof over their heads and food in their bellies. I’ve done much worse to those I loved in order to save…” He closed his eyes a few seconds, and focused over my head again when they opened. “Before she sold me, we were freezing from lack of fuel for heat, and starving because we couldn’t afford food. I knew what she was rescuing my siblings from because I lived it along with them. Once she sold me, I was warm and had food. Life as a slave was harsh, but I was never again in danger of freezing or starving to death.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“How did you escape the man who turned you into a vampire?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I killed him.” No anger now. Gavin’s voice was silky, soft. He wanted to shock me, scare me. I crossed my legs the other direction without looking away from his piercing gaze.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Tell me about how he turned you. Did you know ahead of time? How were you prepared?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Prepared? You can’t prepare a human for what’s ahead of him before you sell him to a sadistic damned vampire. I was a fuck-and-feed whore in his brothel for years before he decided he didn’t want me to age beyond…” A shrug. “This.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I took a fresh look, observing the body without considering the man who inhabited it. If Gavin didn’t look so hard — so weary of life and pissed at the universe — he probably could’ve pulled off a surly eighteen-year-old. However, I’d assumed early-to-mid-twenties the first time I’d met him. I didn’t ask how old he was when turned — he’d already told me he’d lost track of the years once becoming a slave. There were no birth certificates back then.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Did you want to be turned?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">His tone and look were acidic. “Right, because eternity as a slave sounded like a <i>wonderful</i> idea.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You wanted death?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I kept my voice soft. “Why are we here, Gavin?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The muscles in his jaws and temple flexed. “I wanted escape. Death was the only escape I could imagine. I tried to kill myself before being returned to a particularly sadistic Duke — and was severely punished. After, there was never an opportunity to kill myself. No knives, a windowless room so I couldn’t jump. Old age was my only chance of escape.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“They taunted you with it?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Don’t ask stupid questions. Of course they did.” His voice was a whip this time. <i>Good</i>.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I kept plugging away — questioning, demanding answers until I’d heard the whole sordid story of Gavin being used sexually almost nonstop during the week they prepared to turn him, and then finally undertook the horrible, unbearable, unescapable deed.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He was with his Master nearly two hundred years. Watching, learning, growing. Gavin hid his power and acted daft, but he made us of his Master’s extensive library and educated himself in secret.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’m certain Abbott listened to the whole thing, but he didn’t interfere again. Several times, I had to resort to my therapist’s tricks to keep Gavin talking, but that was okay. This was between me and Gavin.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cora stood at the door — the perfect guard. Unmoving and unnoticed, but her presence steadied me.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I learned Gavin had been a Master Vampire a few times. He’d been the kind of Master the man who’d enslaved him had been, the first time. Later, he tried to be nice, and then turned cruel when he realized his people were taking advantage of his good nature.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He’d ruled his territory through fear and torture when Abbott had moved into the lands adjoining his and made him an offer. Gavin felt the new vampire’s power and could’ve never hoped to defeat him. Abbott could’ve easily taken Gavin’s territory but had instead offered to join their demesnes and make Gavin his second.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He’d refused at first. Never would he put himself at another’s mercy again — even if it meant true death.</p>
      <p class="subsq">However, Abbott had nurtured their relationship instead of attacking. Gavin had met the other vampires in Abbott’s coterie, and he’d eventually agreed to Abbott’s offer — and he’d been accepted into the fold with respect and caring. Abbott had given Gavin a <i>home</i> for the first time since before his father had died. He didn’t say it, but I could hear it in his voice — Gavin had been alone and cold for centuries, and Abbott had shown him how to love again.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Abbott was the father Gavin had needed. Abbott had saved him, and Gavin would do anything for the Master Vampire. <i>Even go against his wishes to try to keep him safe.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">It took hours for me to feel I understood Gavin, and once I did, I regretted what I’d have to do next.</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
2023-09-02 03:48:31 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 03:48:32 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-02 03:48:33 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-02 03:48:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:36 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:37 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:38 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:48:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:48:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:48:41 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 03:49:01 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 03:49:02 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-02 03:49:02 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1684cb30
