2023-06-25 13:21:07 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-06-25 13:21:07 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-06-25 13:21:32 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-06-25 13:21:32 INFO  - Session id - ada9a8a01dede87ec47231b4eba32b02a99b4907
2023-06-25 13:21:32 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-06-25 13:21:32 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:35 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-06-25 13:21:35 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-06-25 13:21:35 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:35 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-06-25 13:21:37 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-06-25 13:21:37 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-06-25 13:21:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-06-25 13:21:40 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:40 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-06-25 13:21:40 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:42 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:43 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:44 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-06-25 13:21:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:45 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:45 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:46 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:47 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-06-25 13:21:47 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-06-25 13:21:48 INFO  - bookName: The Revolutionary War in the Adirondacks Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-25 13:21:48 INFO  - bookName: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: A Signature Performance by Elijah Wood Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-06-25 13:21:48 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 2
2023-06-25 13:21:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-06-25 13:21:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-06-25 13:21:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-06-25 13:21:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-06-25 13:21:51 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:21:58 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:21:58 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-06-25 13:22:19 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:22:19 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-06-25 13:22:19 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:22:41 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-06-25 13:23:02 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:03 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-06-25 13:23:03 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-3
2023-06-25 13:23:03 INFO  - randomBookName: Pocket Guide to Pubs and Their Histories
2023-06-25 13:23:03 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-06-25 13:23:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Pocket Guide to Pubs and Their Histories'
2023-06-25 13:23:06 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-06-25 13:23:10 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-06-25 13:23:11 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:23:11 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:18 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-06-25 13:23:19 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:23:19 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:19 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-06-25 13:23:20 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:21 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-06-25 13:23:21 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-06-25 13:23:37 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-06-25 13:23:38 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:38 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-06-25 13:23:38 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:23:39 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-06-25 13:23:39 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-25 13:23:39 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-25 13:23:40 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-25 13:23:40 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" />
<title>Pocket Guide to Pubs and their History</title>
<link href="9781844680931.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="chaptitle"><a id="pre"></a><a id="page_7"></a>Preface</h1>
<p class="eps">‘A pub may be calm or boisterous, smart or scruffy, genteel or rough, quiet or noisy, urban or rural, big or small, crowded or empty. No two of the nearly 70,000<a id="FN01" href="#fn.001">*</a> in England and Wales are the same. The worst are detestable, the best are unique contributions to human happiness, and among the greatest of British inventions.’</p>
<p class="epiv">Richard Boston, <i>Beer and Skittles</i></p>
<p class="text"><big><b>T</b></big>he first time I went in a pub, I was with my dad and two other blokes. It was sometime in the 1957 – 58 football season, which would make me 11 or 12 years old, and we were driving back to Scarborough from watching Middlesbrough beat Doncaster Rovers five nil, with a certain B Clough scoring four of them. We stopped off at The Little Angel in Whitby. It's in Flowergate, at the top of Brunswick Street, and I was allowed in because my father until very recently had been a police sergeant in Whitby.</p>
<p class="text-indent">I wasn't allowed beer of course; my first taste of that was a year or two away, and the appropriate drink was deemed to be Kia Ora orange squash. These were Spartan days, when J<sub>2</sub>0 hadn't been invented and nobody in Yorkshire had heard of Coca-Cola. The soft drinks I knew were dandelion and burdock, cream soda, lemonade and Tizer the Appetiser. Fruit juice was something <a id="page_8"></a>adults had as a first course in a restaurant. I would have preferred any of those to orange squash, but I was not consulted.</p>
<div class="bgbox">
<p class="boxtitle"><i>Plus ça change</i></p>
<p class="text">... plus c'est la même chose. As the late Richard Boston noted in his estimable work, <i>Beer and Skittles</i>: ‘Graffiti discovered by archaeologists in Ur of the Chaldees show that the inhabitants thought that the quality of the drink (beer) had deteriorated, and the first legal code ever devised, that of King Hammurabi of Babylon in about 1,750 <small>BC</small>, condemned weak and over-priced ale.’</p>
</div>
<p class="text-indent">The men had two or three pints – of what I don't know – while I sat with my orange which, as a favour to my father, had been mixed very strong. By the time it had been topped up and topped up, it was almost entirely Kia Ora with hardly any water.</p>
<p class="text-indent">We were about five miles out of Whitby on the North Yorks Moors when I told my dad I thought I was going to be sick. I was immediately proved right so my words had been, in more than one sense, a Scarborough warning. Doubtless there are many folk who can recall being sick after a visit to the pub early in their drinking careers, but how many can claim to have thrown up on Kia Ora?</p>
<p class="text-indent">My first beer was a taste of a bottle my father was drinking, at about age fourteen. By the time I was seventeen I was, like most of my friends at Scarborough High School for Boys, regularly passing myself off as eighteen and drinking pints of bitter in pubs. I had £1 a week pocket money, which would have bought twelve pints although it never did, two or three on a Friday being considered quite daring enough. After all, I had to drive home on my Vespa 150 and appear sober to my mother.</p>
<p class="text-indent">This latter was quite important to bear in mind, as I'd already alerted her warning systems. I'd been playing cricket for Seamer, an evening game, possibly a cup game, away at Bempton on Flamborough Head. I was sixteen and not very good at cricket, but I was available and my girlfriend was the scorer. Returning from what may have been a victory, the team stopped at a brilliant old roadhouse called The Boak End (pronounced Bork).</p>
<p class="text-indent">This pub, famous and much admired by all in those days, is now an island in a sea of caravan sites and renamed The Dotterel Inn by one of the chains. It was advertised recently for sale: ‘The outlet is situated on a major crossroads on the main road between Scarborugh (sic) and Bridlington and the operators need to be able to combine marketing flair to initially attract people into the outlet backed up by quality service and food to encourage repeat business. They should also be able to interact with the local community to provide a solid community base for the outlet.’</p>
<p class="text-indent">As Alan Freeman used to say, not' arf.</p>
<p class="text-indent">Believing The Boak End to be a pub rather than an outlet, and knowing nothing of marketing flair but hoping to interact later with my girlfriend, I was inundated. The team had decided it was time for an ancient cricketing ritual to be performed, a rite of passage, viz, the getting of a junior player into an advanced emotional state and leaving him on his doorstep for his parents to find. Between them, they bought me six pint bottles of Cameron's Strongarm, which would be enough for most experienced drinkers and more than enough <a id="page_9"></a>for a callow sixteen-year-old. Deposited on the doorstep as aforesaid, I found myself unable to explain my condition to my mother. I don’t think I made it to the great white telephone. Cups of tea and towels cloud my memory.</p>
<p class="text-indent">Of course, getting drunk to vomiting point was never the reason for going into pubs, although nowadays it seems to be like that in cities at weekends. We went under age in pubs because it was a grown-up thing to do and because we liked beer. The beer we had in Scarborough was Cameron's of West Hartlepool, Rose's of Malton and Moors’ and Robson's of Hull, known as Muck and Rubbish.</p>
<p class="text-indent">The Scarborough and Whitby Brewery, maker of the famous Target Ales, itself the result of amalgamations and deals among several older firms, including the Esk in Whitby, St Thomas's, the Old Brewery and the Scarborough Brewery Co, had been taken over by Cameron's. The other main Scarborough pub estate, belonging to the Castle and Phoenix Brewery also called Nesfield's, had been swallowed up by Moors’ and Robson's in 1932.</p>
<p class="text-indent">There was one Tetley pub which we didn’t use much because Tetley's beer ‘didn’t travel well’, and one Bass house I remember, The Aberdeen, closed the last time I looked. All the pubs sold the product now called ‘real ale’ but nobody called it that because all ale was real. There was no keg beer in the ordinary pubs in Scarborough in 1963 and no draught lager. Lager came in bottles and some girls drank it with lime as a change from Babycham or Cherry B. Very few girls drank beer. My girlfriend's cousin drank pints of Guinness, which caused more amazement than if she had had four legs and a tail.</p>
<p class="text-indent">Regarding ale, real or unreal, I don’t think we were very quality minded in any case. We were just glad to be served and to be in a pub. We couldn’t get beer anywhere else. There were no supermarkets so no cheap six-packs. Off- licences had bottled beer but would never sell it to anyone obviously under eighteen, and the thought of hanging around the bandstand or whatever, getting drunk, never occurred, mainly because it wasn’t possible.</p>
<p class="text-indent">In central Scarborough town now, and on the sea front, ‘real ale’ is sold in the minority of pubs. Most have only lager and smooth. The Alma, hidden away up a narrow lane just off the corner of Northway and Castle Road, has several good beers and is a proper pub; The New Inn in Falsgrave likewise, even if it's now called The Tap and Spile. The Angel on North Street is OK if you like Tetley's and big screen TV. And so, and so, and the grumpy old pub man regrets the changes in pubs that others seem to welcome.</p>
<p class="text-indent">We lived briefly in North Walsham, Norfolk, an old market town with an old-fashioned look to it. It has five pubs in the centre, and there is not a square inch of any of them, except in the toilets, where you cannot hear piped music, mostly of the boy-racer variety. The biggest pub has music piped into the gents, in case you miss a beat while having a pee.</p>
<p class="text-indent"><a id="page_10"></a>I could have wept when we moved to where we are now, with our ancient pub that has no music, no machines, no pool table, no anything it didn’t have in 1950, 1850 or 1750 for that matter, except an electronic till. The village alone probably wouldn’t be enough to keep it open but people come from all over the country to see it and be in it and have a drink in it, because it is what it is, with settles, thatched roof, open fire, beer straight from the barrel. It's a treasure, but why is it a rarity? Why have we had giant screen TVs, loud youf music and smooth foisted on us, when we will travel many miles to find a pub that doesn’t have these things?</p>
<p class="text-indent">I was moaning about the music in a North Walsham pub when the seventeen- year-old granddaughter of a friend said, ‘If you don’t like music, why do you go in pubs?’ Which kind of sums it up, really.</p>
<div class="bgbox">
<p class="boxtitle"><i>When is a pub not a pub?</i></p>
<div class="bq">
<p class="text">‘When is a drinking place not a pub? The answer to the customer is pretty clear. It is that in any bar where social drinking takes second place, the full requirement is not met. That is to say, not that other activities are always out of place, but rather that if they are allowed to predominate the result will be something less, or at any rate something other, than a pub.’</p>
<p class="right"><i>The Traditional English Pub</i>, Ben Davis</p>
</div>
<p class="text">The truth of this judgement is demonstrated by an incident that took place in a central London pub around 1972. The landlord was a large, genial chap, never morose, always forthright, and his pub was very popular. His draught Bass was truly excellent and he did a good lunchtime trade in the chop and mash, pie and peas kind of food, but he had a natural understanding of Ben Davis’ principle of predominance. The rule at lunchtime, rigorously applied, was that you ordered your drinks first, then you could go to the large serving hatch and order your meal.</p>
<p class="text-indent">One day, some way, nobody could ever imagine how, a young woman, a stranger, managed to seat herself with her plate of food without having bought a drink. The landlord was on the case straight away. He came out from behind the bar and, with due allowance for her youth and unfamiliarity with house rules, asked her what she'd like to drink.</p>
<p class="text-indent">‘Oh’ she said. ‘Perhaps a glass of water, please.’</p>
<p class="text-indent">‘What do you want?’ said the landlord. ‘A f***ing wash or something?’</p>
</div>
<div class="footnotes"><p class="footnote"><a id="fn.001" href="#FN01">*</a> In 1976. By 2010, down to about 55,000.</p></div></body></html>
2023-06-25 13:23:40 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-06-25 13:23:41 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-06-25 13:24:05 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-06-25 13:24:05 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:05 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-06-25 13:24:06 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:06 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-06-25 13:24:07 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:07 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-06-25 13:24:08 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-25 13:24:11 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-06-25 13:24:11 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-06-25 13:24:13 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-06-25 13:24:15 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-06-25 13:24:16 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:19 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:20 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:20 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:24:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:24:22 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-06-25 13:24:43 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-06-25 13:24:43 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@7a99d08d
