2023-03-24 19:42:55 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-03-24 19:42:55 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-24 19:43:36 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-24 19:43:36 INFO  - Session id - 395fcb7f148628241e4d0d8dd42a994ffffabe3f
2023-03-24 19:43:36 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-03-24 19:43:36 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:39 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:43:40 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-03-24 19:43:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:40 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:43:41 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-03-24 19:43:41 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:43:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-24 19:43:45 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:46 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-24 19:43:46 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:47 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:49 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:50 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-24 19:43:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:52 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:53 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:43:54 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-03-24 19:43:54 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - bookName: Boy With Loaded Gun Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - bookName: Faust Part 1 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - bookName: Black Notice Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 3
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:44:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-03-24 19:44:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:44:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-24 19:44:28 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:44:35 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:44:36 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-24 19:44:57 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:44:59 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-03-24 19:44:59 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:45:21 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-03-24 19:45:41 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:45:43 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-24 19:45:43 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-3
2023-03-24 19:45:43 INFO  - randomBookName: The Argonautica
2023-03-24 19:45:43 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 19:45:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Argonautica'
2023-03-24 19:45:46 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 19:45:48 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 19:45:51 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:45:52 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:45:56 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 19:45:57 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:45:57 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:45:58 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:45:59 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:45:59 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-24 19:45:59 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-24 19:46:23 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 19:46:24 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:46:25 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-03-24 19:46:25 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:46:26 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:46:26 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:46:26 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:46:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:46:28 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Argonautica, by Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00001">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 2em">Title: The Argonautica</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: November 8, 2004 [EBook #13977]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ARGONAUTICA ***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 4em">Produced by Ted Garvin, Aaron A. Reed and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net</p>

<h1 id="id00008" style="margin-top: 6em">                    APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h1>

<h5 id="id00009">                     THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 2em">              With An English Translation By</p>

<h5 id="id00011">                     R.C. SEATON, M.A.</h5>

<p id="id00012">        Formerly Fellow Of Jesus College, Cambridge</p>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 3em">                        <i> 1912 </i></p>

<h1 id="id00014" style="margin-top: 5em">CONTENTS</h1>

<h4 id="id00015" style="margin-top: 2em">INTRODUCTION
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BOOK I
BOOK II
BOOK III
BOOK IV
STEMMA MEDEAE
INDEX</h4>

<h2 id="id00016" style="margin-top: 4em">INTRODUCTION</h2>

<p id="id00017" style="margin-top: 2em">Much has been written about the chronology of Alexandrian literature and
the famous Library, founded by Ptolemy Soter, but the dates of the chief
writers are still matters of conjecture. The birth of Apollonius Rhodius
is placed by scholars at various times between 296 and 260 B.C., while
the year of his death is equally uncertain. In fact, we have very little
information on the subject. There are two "lives" of Apollonius in the
Scholia, both derived from an earlier one which is lost. From these we
learn that he was of Alexandria by birth,[1] that he lived in the time
of the Ptolemies, and was a pupil of Callimachus; that while still a
youth he composed and recited in public his <i>Argonautica</i>, and that the
poem was condemned, in consequence of which he retired to Rhodes; that
there he revised his poem, recited it with great applause, and hence
called himself a Rhodian. The second "life" adds: "Some say that he
returned to Alexandria and again recited his poem with the utmost
success, so that he was honoured with the libraries of the Museum[2] and
was buried with Callimachus." The last sentence may be interpreted by
the notice of Suidas, who informs us that Apollonius was a contemporary
of Eratosthenes, Euphorion and Timarchus, in the time of Ptolemy
Euergetes, and that he succeeded Eratosthenes in the headship of the
Alexandrian Library. Suidas also informs us elsewhere that Aristophanes
at the age of sixty-two succeeded Apollonius in this office. Many modern
scholars deny the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius for chronological
reasons, and there is considerable difficulty about it. The date of
Callimachus' <i>Hymn to Apollo,</i> which closes with some lines (105-113)
that are admittedly an allusion to Apollonius, may be put with much
probability at 248 or 247 B.C. Apollonius must at that date have been at
least twenty years old. Eratosthenes died 196-193 B.C. This would make
Apollonius seventy-two to seventy-five when he succeeded Eratosthenes.
This is not impossible, it is true, but it is difficult. But the
difficulty is taken away if we assume with Ritschl that Eratosthenes
resigned his office some years before his death, which allows us to put
the birth of Apollonius at about 280, and would solve other
difficulties. For instance, if the Librarians were buried within the
precincts, it would account for the burial of Apollonius next to
Callimachus—Eratosthenes being still alive. However that may be, it is
rather arbitrary to take away the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius,
which is clearly asserted by Suidas, on account of chronological
calculations which are themselves uncertain. Moreover, it is more
probable that the words following "some say" in the second "life" are a
remnant of the original life than a conjectural addition, because the
first "life" is evidently incomplete, nothing being said about the end
of Apollonius' career.</p>

<p id="id00018">[Footnote 1: "Or of Naucratis," according to Aelian and Athenaeus.]</p>

<p id="id00019">[Footnote 2: [Greek: hôs kai tôn bibliothêkôn tou mouseiou axiôthênai
auton.]]</p>

<p id="id00020">The principal event in his life, so far as we know, was the quarrel with
his master Callimachus, which was most probably the cause of his
condemnation at Alexandria and departure to Rhodes. This quarrel appears
to have arisen from differences of literary aims and taste, but, as
literary differences often do, degenerated into the bitterest personal
strife. There are references to the quarrel in the writings of both.
Callimachus attacks Apollonius in the passage at the end of the <i>Hymn to
Apollo</i>, already mentioned, also probably in some epigrams, but most of
all in his <i>Ibis</i>, of which we have an imitation, or perhaps nearly a
translation, in Ovid's poem of the same name. On the part of Apollonius
there is a passage in the third book of the <i>Argonautica</i> (11. 927-947)
which is of a polemical nature and stands out from the context, and the
well-known savage epigram upon Callimachus.[1] Various combinations have
been attempted by scholars, notably by Couat, in his <i>Poésie
Alexandrine</i>, to give a connected account of the quarrel, but we have
not <i>data</i> sufficient to determine the order of the attacks, and
replies, and counter-attacks. The <i>Ibis</i> has been thought to mark the
termination of the feud on the curious ground that it was impossible for
abuse to go further. It was an age when literary men were more inclined
to comment on writings of the past than to produce original work.
Literature was engaged in taking stock of itself. Homer was, of course,
professedly admired by all, but more admired than imitated. Epic poetry
was out of fashion and we find many epigrams of this period—some by
Callimachus—directed against the "cyclic" poets, by whom were meant at
that time those who were always dragging in conventional and commonplace
epithets and phrases peculiar to epic poetry. Callimachus was in
accordance with the spirit of the age when he proclaimed "a great book"
to be "a great evil," and sought to confine poetical activity within the
narrowest limits both of subject and space. Theocritus agreed with him,
both in principle and practice. The chief characteristics of
Alexandrianism are well summarized by Professor Robinson Ellis as
follows: "Precision in form and metre, refinement in diction, a learning
often degenerating into pedantry and obscurity, a resolute avoidance of
everything commonplace in subject, sentiment or allusion." These traits
are more prominent in Callimachus than in Apollonius, but they are
certainly to be seen in the latter. He seems to have written the
<i>Argonautica</i> out of bravado, to show that he <i>could</i> write an epic
poem. But the influence of the age was too strong. Instead of the unity
of an Epic we have merely a series of episodes, and it is the great
beauty and power of one of these episodes that gives the poem its
permanent value—the episode of the love of Jason and Medea. This
occupies the greater part of the third book. The first and second books
are taken up with the history of the voyage to Colchis, while the fourth
book describes the return voyage. These portions constitute a metrical
guide book, filled no doubt with many pleasing episodes, such as the
rape of Hylas, the boxing match between Pollux and Amycus, the account
of Cyzicus, the account of the Amazons, the legend of Talos, but there
is no unity running through the poem beyond that of the voyage itself.</p>

<p id="id00021">[Footnote 1: Anth. Pal. xi. 275.]</p>

<p id="id00022">The Tale of the Argonauts had been told often before in verse and prose,
and many authors' names are given in the Scholia to Apollonius, but
their works have perished. The best known earlier account that we have
is that in Pindar's fourth Pythian ode, from which Apollonius has taken
many details. The subject was one for an epic poem, for its unity might
have been found in the working out of the expiation due for the crime of
Athamas; but this motive is barely mentioned by our author.</p>

<p id="id00023">As we have it, the motive of the voyage is the command of Pelias to
bring back the golden fleece, and this command is based on Pelias'
desire to destroy Jason, while the divine aid given to Jason results
from the intention of Hera to punish Pelias for his neglect of the
honour due to her. The learning of Apollonius is not deep but it is
curious; his general sentiments are not according to the Alexandrian
standard, for they are simple and obvious. In the mass of material from
which he had to choose the difficulty was to know what to omit, and much
skill is shewn in fusing into a tolerably harmonious whole conflicting
mythological and historical details. He interweaves with his narrative
local legends and the founding of cities, accounts of strange customs,
descriptions of works of art, such as that of Ganymede and Eros playing
with knucklebones,[1] but prosaically calls himself back to the point
from these pleasing digressions by such an expression as "but this would
take me too far from my song." His business is the straightforward tale
and nothing else. The astonishing geography of the fourth book reminds
us of the interest of the age in that subject, stimulated no doubt by
the researches of Eratosthenes and others.</p>

<p id="id00024">[Footnote 1: iii. 117-124.]</p>

<p id="id00025">The language is that of the conventional epic. Apollonius seems to have
carefully studied Homeric glosses, and gives many examples of isolated
uses, but his choice of words is by no means limited to Homer. He freely
avails himself of Alexandrian words and late uses of Homeric words.
Among his contemporaries Apollonius suffers from a comparison with
Theocritus, who was a little his senior, but he was much admired by
Roman writers who derived inspiration from the great classical writers
of Greece by way of Alexandria. In fact Alexandria was a useful bridge
between Athens and Rome. The <i>Argonautica</i> was translated by Varro
Atacinus, copied by Ovid and Virgil, and minutely studied by Valerius
Flaccus in his poem of the same name. Some of his finest passages have
been appropriated and improved upon by Virgil by the divine right of
superior genius.[1] The subject of love had been treated in the romantic
spirit before the time of Apollonius in writings that have perished, for
instance, in those of Antimachus of Colophon, but the <i>Argonautica</i> is
perhaps the first poem still extant in which the expression of this
spirit is developed with elaboration. The Medea of Apollonius is the
direct precursor of the Dido of Virgil, and it is the pathos and passion
of the fourth book of the Aeneid that keep alive many a passage of
Apollonius.</p>

<p id="id00026">[Footnote 1: e.g. compare <i>Aen.</i> iv. 305 foll, with Ap. Rh. iv. 355
foll., <i>Aen.</i> iv. 327-330 with Ap. Rh. i. 897, 898, <i>Aen.</i> iv. 522
foll., with Ap. Rh. iii. 744 foll.]</p>

<h2 id="id00027" style="margin-top: 4em">BIBLIOGRAPHY.</h2>

<p id="id00028" style="margin-top: 2em">Two editions of the Argonautica were published by Apollonius. Of these
we have only the second. The Scholia preserve a few passages of the
first edition, from which the second seems to have differed only
slightly. The old opinion that our MSS. preserve any traces of the first
edition has long been given up. The principal MSS. are the following:—</p>

<p id="id00029" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Laurentian, also called the Medicean, XXXII. 9, of the early
     eleventh century, the excellent MS. at Florence which contains
     Sophocles, Aeschylus and Apollonius Rhodius. This is far the best
     authority for the text (here denoted by L).</p>

<p id="id00030" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Guelferbytanus of the thirteenth century, which closely agrees
     with another Laurentian, XXXII. 16, of the same date (here denoted
     by G and L^2 respectively).</p>

<p id="id00031">There were in the early eleventh century two types of text, the first
being best known to us by L, the second by G and L^2 and the corrections
made in L. Quotations in the Etymologicum Magnum agree with the second
type and show that this is as old as the fifth century. Besides these
there are, of inferior MSS., four Vatican and five Parisian which are
occasionally useful. Most of them have Scholia; the best Scholia are
those of L.</p>

<p id="id00032">The principal editions are:—</p>

<p id="id00033">Florence, 1496, 4to. This is the <i>editio princeps</i>, by Lascaris, based
on L, with Scholia, a very rare book.</p>

<p id="id00034">Venice, 1521, 8vo. The Aldine, by Franciscus Asulanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00035">Paris, 1541, 8vo, based on the Parisian MSS.</p>

<p id="id00036">Geneva, 1574, 4to, by Stephanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00037">Leyden, 1641, 2 vols., 8vo, by J. Hölzlin, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00038">Oxford, 1777, 2 vols., 4to, by J. Shaw, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00039">Strassburg, 1780, 8vo and 4to, by R.F.P. Brunck.</p>

<p id="id00040">Rome, 1791-1794, 2 vols., 4to, by Flangini, with an Italian translation.</p>

<p id="id00041">Leipzig, 1797, 8vo, by Ch. D. Beck, with a Latin version. A second
volume, to contain the Scholia and a commentary, was never published.</p>

<p id="id00042">Leipzig, 1810-1813, 2 vols., 8vo. A second edition of Brunck by G.H.
Schäfer, with the Florentine and Parisian Scholia, the latter printed
for the first time.</p>

<p id="id00043">Leipzig, 1828, 8vo, by A. Wellauer, with the Scholia, both Florentine
and Parisian.</p>

<p id="id00044">Paris, 1811, 4to, by F.S. Lehrs, with a Latin version. In the Didot
series.</p>

<p id="id00045">Leipzig, 1852, 8vo, by R. Merkel, "ad cod. MS. Laurentianum." The<br />

Teubner Text.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00046">Leipzig, 1854, 2 vols., 8vo, by R. Merkel. The second volume contains<br />

Merkel's prolegomena and the Scholia to L, edited by H. Keil.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00047">Oxford, 1900, 8vo, by R.C. Seaton. In the "Scriptorum Classicorum<br />

Bibliotheca Oxoniensis" series.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00048">The text of the present edition is, with a few exceptions, that of the
Oxford edition prepared by me for the Delegates of the Clarendon Press,
whom I hereby thank for their permission to use it.</p>

<p id="id00049">The English translations of Apollonius are as follows:—</p>

<p id="id00050">By E.B. Greene, by F. Fawkes, both 1780; by W. Preston, 1803. None of
these are of value. There is a prose translation by E.P. Coleridge in
the Bohn Series. The most recent and also the best is a verse
translation by Mr. A.S. Way, 1901, in "The Temple Classics."</p>

<p id="id00051">I may also mention the excellent translation in French by Prof. H. de La<br />

Ville de Mirmont of the University of Bordeaux, 1892.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00052">Upon Alexandrian literature in general Couat's <i>Poésie Alexandrine, sous
les trois premiers Ptoletmées</i>, 1882, may be recommended. Susemihl's
<i>Geschichte der Griechischen Litteratur in der Alexandinerzeit</i>, 2
vols., 1891, is a perfect storehouse of facts and authorities, but more
adapted for reference than for general reading. Morris' <i>Life and Death
of Jason</i> is a poem that in many passages singularly resembles
Apollonius in its pessimistic tone and spirit.</p>

<h2 id="id00053" style="margin-top: 4em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h2>

<h5 id="id00054">THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<h5 id="id00055">BOOK I</h5>

<h4 id="id00056" style="margin-top: 2em">SUMMARY OF BOOK I</h4>

<p id="id00057" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     Invocation of Phoebus and cause of the expedition
     (1-22).—Catalogue of the Argonauts (23-233).—March of the heroes
     to the port: farewell of Jason and Alcimede
     (234-305).—Preparations for departure and launching of Argo:
     sacrifice to Apollo: prediction of Idmon (306-447).—The festival,
     insolence of Idas, song of Orpheus and departure (448-558).—Voyage
     along the coast of Thessaly and across to Lemnos (559-608).—Recent
     history of Lemnos and stay of the Argonauts there: farewell of
     Jason and Hypsipyle (609-909).—Voyage from Lemnos by Samothrace to
     the Propontis: reception by the Doliones of Cyzicus
     (910-988).—Fight against the Giants: departure and return of the
     Argonauts to Cyzicus: sacrifice to Rhea on Mt. Dindymum
     (989-1152).—Arrival among the Mysians: rape of Hylas, which is
     announced to Heracles (1153-1260).—While Heracles and Polyphemus
     search for Hylas they are left behind (1261-1328).—The fate of
     Heracles and Polyphemus: arrival of Argo among the Bebrycians
     (1329-1362).</p>

<h3 id="id00058" style="margin-top: 3em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS THE ARGONAUTICA</h3>

<h5 id="id00059">BOOK I</h5>

<p id="id00060" style="margin-top: 2em">Beginning with thee, O Phoebus, I will recount the famous deeds of men
of old, who, at the behest of King Pelias, down through the mouth of
Pontus and between the Cyanean rocks, sped well-benched Argo in quest of
the golden fleece.</p>

<p id="id00061">Such was the oracle that Pelias heard, that a hateful doom awaited
him—to be slain at the prompting of the man whom he should see coming
forth from the people with but one sandal. And no long time after, in
accordance with that true report, Jason crossed the stream of wintry
Anaurus on foot, and saved one sandal from the mire, but the other he
left in the depths held back by the flood. And straightway he came to
Pelias to share the banquet which the king was offering to his father
Poseidon and the rest of the gods, though he paid no honour to Pelasgian
Hera. Quickly the king saw him and pondered, and devised for him the
toil of a troublous voyage, in order that on the sea or among strangers
he might lose his home-return.</p>

<p id="id00062">The ship, as former bards relate, Argus wrought by the guidance of
Athena. But now I will tell the lineage and the names of the heroes, and
of the long sea-paths and the deeds they wrought in their wanderings;
may the Muses be the inspirers of my song!</p>

<p id="id00063">First then let us name Orpheus whom once Calliope bare, it is said,
wedded to Thracian Oeagrus, near the Pimpleian height. Men say that he
by the music of his songs charmed the stubborn rocks upon the mountains
and the course of rivers. And the wild oak-trees to this day, tokens of
that magic strain, that grow at Zone on the Thracian shore, stand in
ordered ranks close together, the same which under the charm of his lyre
he led down from Pieria. Such then was Orpheus whom Aeson's son welcomed
to share his toils, in obedience to the behest of Cheiron, Orpheus ruler
of Bistonian Pieria.</p>

<p id="id00064">Straightway came Asterion, whom Cometes begat by the waters of eddying<br />

Apidanus; he dwelt at Peiresiae near the Phylleian mount, where mighty<br />

Apidanus and bright Enipeus join their streams, coming together from<br />

afar.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00065">Next to them from Larisa came Polyphemus, son of Eilatus, who aforetime
among the mighty Lapithae, when they were arming themselves against the
Centaurs, fought in his younger days; now his limbs were grown heavy
with age, but his martial spirit still remained, even as of old.</p>

<p id="id00066">Nor was Iphiclus long left behind in Phylace, the uncle of Aeson's son;
for Aeson had wedded his sister Alcimede, daughter of Phylacus: his
kinship with her bade him be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00067">Nor did Admetus, the lord of Pherae rich in sheep, stay behind beneath
the peak of the Chalcodonian mount.</p>

<p id="id00068">Nor at Alope stayed the sons of Hermes, rich in corn-land, well skilled
in craftiness, Erytus and Echion, and with them on their departure their
kinsman Aethalides went as the third; him near the streams of Amphrysus
Eupolemeia bare, the daughter of Myrmidon, from Phthia; the two others
were sprung from Antianeira, daughter of Menetes.</p>

<p id="id00069">From rich Gyrton came Coronus, son of Caeneus, brave, but not braver
than his father. For bards relate that Caeneus though still living
perished at the hands of the Centaurs, when apart from other chiefs he
routed them; and they, rallying against him, could neither bend nor slay
him; but unconquered and unflinching he passed beneath the earth,
overwhelmed by the downrush of massy pines.</p>

<p id="id00070">There came too Titaresian Mopsus, whom above all men the son of Leto
taught the augury of birds; and Eurydamas the son of Ctimenus; he dwelt
at Dolopian Ctimene near the Xynian lake.</p>

<p id="id00071">Moreover Actor sent his son Menoetius from Opus that he might accompany
the chiefs.</p>

<p id="id00072">Eurytion followed and strong Eribotes, one the son of Teleon, the other
of Irus, Actor's son; the son of Teleon renowned Eribotes, and of Irus
Eurytion. A third with them was Oileus, peerless in courage and well
skilled to attack the flying foe, when they break their ranks.</p>

<p id="id00073">Now from Euboea came Canthus eager for the quest, whom Canethus son of
Abas sent; but he was not destined to return to Cerinthus. For fate had
ordained that he and Mopsus, skilled in the seer's art, should wander
and perish in the furthest ends of Libya. For no ill is too remote for
mortals to incur, seeing that they buried them in Libya, as far from the
Colchians as is the space that is seen between the setting and the
rising of the sun.</p>

<p id="id00074">To him Clytius and Iphitus joined themselves, the warders of Oechalia,
sons of Eurytus the ruthless, Eurytus, to whom the Far-shooting god gave
his bow; but he had no joy of the gift; for of his own choice he strove
even with the giver.</p>

<p id="id00075">After them came the sons of Aeacus, not both together, nor from the same
spot; for they settled far from Aegina in exile, when in their folly
they had slain their brother Phocus. Telamon dwelt in the Attic island;
but Peleus departed and made his home in Phthia.</p>

<p id="id00076">After them from Cecropia came warlike Butes, son of brave Teleon, and
Phalerus of the ashen spear. Alcon his father sent him forth; yet no
other sons had he to care for his old age and livelihood. But him, his
well-beloved and only son, he sent forth that amid bold heroes he might
shine conspicuous. But Theseus, who surpassed all the sons of
Erechtheus, an unseen bond kept beneath the land of Taenarus, for he had
followed that path with Peirithous; assuredly both would have lightened
for all the fulfilment of their toil.</p>

<p id="id00077">Tiphys, son of Hagnias, left the Siphaean people of the Thespians, well
skilled to foretell the rising wave on the broad sea, and well skilled
to infer from sun and star the stormy winds and the time for sailing.
Tritonian Athena herself urged him to join the band of chiefs, and he
came among them a welcome comrade. She herself too fashioned the swift
ship; and with her Argus, son of Arestor, wrought it by her counsels.
Wherefore it proved the most excellent of all ships that have made trial
of the sea with oars.</p>

<p id="id00078">After them came Phlias from Araethyrea, where he dwelt in affluence by
the favour of his father Dionysus, in his home by the springs of Asopus.</p>

<p id="id00079">From Argos came Talaus and Areius, sons of Bias, and mighty Leodocus,
all of whom Pero daughter of Neleus bare; on her account the Aeolid
Melampus endured sore affliction in the steading of Iphiclus.</p>

<p id="id00080">Nor do we learn that Heracles of the mighty heart disregarded the eager
summons of Aeson's son. But when he heard a report of the heroes'
gathering and had readied Lyrceian Argos from Arcadia by the road along
which he carried the boar alive that fed in the thickets of Lampeia,
near the vast Erymanthian swamp, the boar bound with chains he put down
from his huge shoulders at the entrance to the market-place of Mycenae;
and himself of his own will set out against the purpose of Eurystheus;
and with him went Hylas, a brave comrade, in the flower of youth, to
bear his arrows and to guard his bow.</p>

<p id="id00081">Next to him came a scion of the race of divine Danaus, Nauplius. He was
the son of Clytonaeus son of Naubolus; Naubolus was son of Lernus;
Lernus we know was the son of Proetus son of Nauplius; and once Amymone
daughter of Danaus, wedded to Poseidon, bare Nauplius, who surpassed all
men in naval skill.</p>

<p id="id00082">Idmon came last of all them that dwelt at Argos, though he had learnt
his own fate by augury, he came, that the people might not grudge him
fair renown. He was not in truth the son of Abas, but Leto's son himself
begat him to be numbered among the illustrious Aeolids; and himself
taught him the art of prophecy—to pay heed to birds and to observe the
signs of the burning sacrifice.</p>

<p id="id00083">Moreover Aetolian Leda sent from Sparta strong Polydeuces and Castor,
skilled to guide swift-footed steeds; these her dearly-loved sons she
bare at one birth in the house of Tyndareus; nor did she forbid their
departure; for she had thoughts worthy of the bride of Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00084">The sons of Aphareus, Lynceus and proud Idas, came from Arene, both
exulting in their great strength; and Lynceus too excelled in keenest
sight, if the report is true that that hero could easily direct his
sight even beneath the earth.</p>

<p id="id00085">And with them Neleian Periclymenus set out to come, eldest of all the
sons of godlike Neleus who were born at Pylos; Poseidon had given him
boundless strength and granted him that whatever shape he should crave
during the fight, that he should take in the stress of battle.</p>

<p id="id00086">Moreover from Arcadia came Amphidamas and Cepheus, who inhabited Tegea
and the allotment of Apheidas, two sons of Aleus; and Ancaeus followed
them as the third, whom his father Lycurgus sent, the brother older than
both. But he was left in the city to care for Aleus now growing old,
while he gave his son to join his brothers. Ancaeus went clad in the
skin of a Maenalian bear, and wielding in his right hand a huge
two-edged battleaxe. For his armour his grandsire had hidden in the
house's innermost recess, to see if he might by some means still stay
his departure.</p>

<p id="id00087">There came also Augeias, whom fame declared to be the son of Helios; he
reigned over the Eleans, glorying in his wealth; and greatly he desired
to behold the Colchian land and Aeetes himself the ruler of the
Colchians.</p>

<p id="id00088">Asterius and Amphion, sons of Hyperasius, came from Achaean Pellene,
which once Pelles their grandsire founded on the brows of Aegialus.</p>

<p id="id00089">After them from Taenarus came Euphemus whom, most swift-footed of men,
Europe, daughter of mighty Tityos, bare to Poseidon. He was wont to skim
the swell of the grey sea, and wetted not his swift feet, but just
dipping the tips of his toes was borne on the watery path.</p>

<p id="id00090">Yea, and two other sons of Poseidon came; one Erginus, who left the
citadel of glorious Miletus, the other proud Ancaeus, who left
Parthenia, the seat of Imbrasion Hera; both boasted their skill in
sea-craft and in war.</p>

<p id="id00091">After them from Calydon came the son of Oeneus, strong Meleagrus, and
Laocoon—Laocoon the brother of Oeneus, though not by the same mother,
for a serving-woman bare him; him, now growing old, Oeneus sent to guard
his son: thus Meleagrus, still a youth, entered the bold band of heroes.
No other had come superior to him, I ween, except Heracles, if for one
year more he had tarried and been nurtured among the Aetolians. Yea, and
his uncle, well skilled to fight whether with the javelin or hand to
hand, Iphiclus son of Thestius, bare him company on his way.</p>

<p id="id00092">With him came Palaemonius, son of Olenian Lernus, of Lernus by repute,
but his birth was from Hephaestus; and so he was crippled in his feet,
but his bodily frame and his valour no one would dare to scorn.
Wherefore he was numbered among all the chiefs, winning fame for Jason.</p>

<p id="id00093">From the Phocians came Iphitus sprung from Naubolus son of Ornytus; once
he had been his host when Jason went to Pytho to ask for a response
concerning his voyage; for there he welcomed him in his own halls.</p>

<p id="id00094">Next came Zetes and Calais, sons of Boreas, whom once Oreithyia,
daughter of Erechtheus, bare to Boreas on the verge of wintry Thrace;
thither it was that Thracian Boreas snatched her away from Cecropia as
she was whirling in the dance, hard by Ilissus' stream. And, carrying
her far off, to the spot that men called the rock of Sarpedon, near the
river Erginus, he wrapped her in dark clouds and forced her to his will.
There they were making their dusky wings quiver upon their ankles on
both sides as they rose, a great wonder to behold, wings that gleamed
with golden scales: and round their backs from the top of the head and
neck, hither and thither, their dark tresses were being shaken by the
wind.</p>

<p id="id00095">No, nor had Acastus son of mighty Pelias himself any will to stay behind
in the palace of his brave sire, nor Argus, helper of the goddess
Athena; but they too were ready to be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00096">So many then were the helpers who assembled to join the son of Aeson.
All the chiefs the dwellers thereabout called Minyae, for the most and
the bravest avowed that they were sprung from the blood of the daughters
of Minyas; thus Jason himself was the son of Alcimede who was born of
Clymene the daughter of Minyas.</p>

<p id="id00097">Now when all things had been made ready by the thralls, all things that
fully-equipped ships are furnished withal when men's business leads them
to voyage across the sea, then the heroes took their way through the
city to the ship where it lay on the strand that men call Magnesian
Pagasae; and a crowd of people hastening rushed together; but the heroes
shone like gleaming stars among the clouds; and each man as he saw them
speeding along with their armour would say:</p>

<p id="id00098">"King Zeus, what is the purpose of Pelias? Whither is he driving forth
from the Panachaean land so great a host of heroes? On one day they
would waste the palace of Aeetes with baleful fire, should he not yield
them the fleece of his own goodwill. But the path is not to be shunned,
the toil is hard for those who venture."</p>

<p id="id00099">Thus they spake here and there throughout the city; but the women often
raised their hands to the sky in prayer to the immortals to grant a
return, their hearts' desire. And one with tears thus lamented to her
fellow:</p>

<p id="id00100">"Wretched Alcimede, evil has come to thee at last though late, thou hast
not ended with splendour of life. Aeson too, ill-fated man! Surely
better had it been for him, if he were lying beneath the earth enveloped
in his shroud, still unconscious of bitter toils. Would that the dark
wave, when the maiden Helle perished, had overwhelmed Phrixus too with
the ram: but the dire portent even sent forth a human voice, that it
might cause to Alcimede sorrows and countless pains hereafter."</p>

<p id="id00101">Thus the women spake at the departure of the heroes. And now many
thralls, men and women, were gathered together, and his mother, smitten
with grief for Jason. And a bitter pang seized every woman's heart; and
with them groaned the father in baleful old age, lying on his bed,
closely wrapped round. But the hero straightway soothed their pain,
encouraging them, and bade the thralls take up his weapons for war; and
they in silence with downcast looks took them up. And even as the mother
had thrown her arms about her son, so she clung, weeping without stint,
as a maiden all alone weeps, falling fondly on the neck of her hoary
nurse, a maid who has now no others to care for her, but she drags on a
weary life under a stepmother, who maltreats her continually with ever
fresh insults, and as she weeps, her heart within her is bound fast with
misery, nor can she sob forth all the groans that struggle for
utterance; so without stint wept Alcimede straining her son in her arms,
and in her yearning grief spake as follows:</p>

<p id="id00102">"Would that on that day when, wretched woman that I am, I heard King
Pelias proclaim his evil behest, I had straightway given up my life and
forgotten my cares, so that thou thyself, my son, with thine own hands,
mightest have buried me; for that was the only wish left me still to be
fulfilled by thee, all the other rewards for thy nurture have I long
enjoyed. Now I, once so admired among Achaean women, shall be left
behind like a bondwoman in my empty halls, pining away, ill-fated one,
for love of thee, thee on whose account I had aforetime so much splendour
and renown, my only son for whom I loosed my virgin zone first and last.
For to me beyond others the goddess Eileithyia grudged abundant
offspring. Alas for my folly! Not once, not even in my dreams did I
forebode this, that the flight of Phrixus would bring me woe."</p>

<p id="id00103">Thus with moaning she wept, and her handmaidens, standing by, lamented;
but Jason spake gently to her with comforting words:</p>

<p id="id00104">"Do not, I pray thee, mother, store up bitter sorrows overmuch, for thou
wilt not redeem me from evil by tears, but wilt still add grief to
grief. For unseen are the woes that the gods mete out to mortals; be
strong to endure thy share of them though with grief in thy heart; take
courage from the promises of Athena, and from the answers of the gods
(for very favourable oracles has Phoebus given), and then from the help
of the chieftains. But do thou remain here, quiet among thy handmaids,
and be not a bird of ill omen to the ship; and thither my clansmen and
thralls will follow me."</p>

<p id="id00105">He spake, and started forth to leave the house. And as Apollo goes forth
from some fragrant shrine to divine Delos or Claros or Pytho or to broad
Lycia near the stream of Xanthus, in such beauty moved Jason through the
throng of people; and a cry arose as they shouted together. And there
met him aged Iphias, priestess of Artemis guardian of the city, and
kissed his right hand, but she had not strength to say a word, for all
her eagerness, as the crowd rushed on, but she was left there by the
wayside, as the old are left by the young, and he passed on and was gone
afar.</p>

<p id="id00106">Now when he had left the well-built streets of the city he came to the
beach of Pagasae, where his comrades greeted him as they stayed together
near the ship Argo. And he stood at the entering in, and they were
gathered to meet him. And they perceived Acastus and Argus coming from
the city, and they marvelled when they saw them hasting with all speed,
despite the will of Pelias. The one, Argus, son of Arestor, had cast
round his shoulders the hide of a bull reaching to his feet, with the
black hair upon it, the other, a fair mantle of double fold, which his
sister Pelopeia had given him. Still Jason forebore from asking them
about each point but bade all be seated for an assembly. And there, upon
the folded sails and the mast as it lay on the ground, they all took
their seats in order. And among them with goodwill spake Aeson's son:</p>

<p id="id00107">"All the equipment that a ship needs—for all is in due order—lies
ready for our departure. Therefore we will make no long delay in our
sailing for these things' sake, when the breezes but blow fair. But,
friends,—for common to all is our return to Hellas hereafter, and
common to all is our path to the land of Aeetes—now therefore with
ungrudging heart choose the bravest to be our leader, who shall be
careful for everything, to take upon him our quarrels and covenants with
strangers."</p>

<p id="id00108">Thus he spake; and the young heroes turned their eves towards bold
Heracles sitting in their midst, and with one shout they all enjoined
upon him to be their leader; but he, from the place where he sat,
stretched forth his right hand and said:</p>

<p id="id00109">"Let no one offer this honour to me. For I will not consent, and I will
forbid any other to stand up. Let the hero who brought us together,
himself be the leader of the host."</p>

<p id="id00110">Thus he spake with high thoughts, and they assented, as Heracles bade;
and warlike Jason himself rose up, glad at heart, and thus addressed the
eager throng:</p>

<p id="id00111">"If ye entrust your glory to my care, no longer as before let our path
be hindered. Now at last let us propitiate Phoebus with sacrifice and
straightway prepare a feast. And until my thralls come, the overseers of
my steading, whose care it is to choose out oxen from the herd and drive
them hither, we will drag down the ship to the sea, and do ye place all
the tackling within, and draw lots for the benches for rowing. Meantime
let us build upon the beach an altar to Apollo Embasius[1] who by an
oracle promised to point out and show me the paths of the sea, if by
sacrifice to him I should begin my venture for King Pelias."</p>

<p id="id00112">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of embarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00113">He spake, and was the first to turn to the work, and they stood up in
obedience to him; and they heaped their garments, one upon the other, on
a smooth stone, which the sea did not strike with its waves, but the
stormy surge had cleansed it long before. First of all, by the command
of Argus, they strongly girded the ship with a rope well twisted
within,[1] stretching it tight on each side, in order that the planks
might be well compacted by the bolts and might withstand the opposing
force of the surge. And they quickly dug a trench as wide as the space
the ship covered, and at the prow as far into the sea as it would run
when drawn down by their hands. And they ever dug deeper in front of the
stem, and in the furrow laid polished rollers; and inclined the ship
down upon the first rollers, that so she might glide and be borne on by
them. And above, on both sides, reversing the oars, they fastened them
round the thole-pins, so as to project a cubit's space. And the heroes
themselves stood on both sides at the oars in a row, and pushed forward
with chest and hand at once. And then Tiphys leapt on board to urge the
youths to push at the right moment; and calling on them he shouted
loudly; and they at once, leaning with all their strength, with one push
started the ship from her place, and strained with their feet, forcing
her onward; and Pelian Argo followed swiftly; and they on each side
shouted as they rushed on. And then the rollers groaned under the sturdy
keel as they were chafed, and round them rose up a dark smoke owing to
the weight, and she glided into the sea; but the heroes stood there and
kept dragging her back as she sped onward. And round the thole-pins they
fitted the oars, and in the ship they placed the mast and the well-made
sails and the stores.</p>

<p id="id00114">[Footnote 1: Or, reading [Greek: ektothen], "they strongly girded the
ship outside with a well-twisted rope." In either case there is probably
no allusion to [Greek: hupozômata] (ropes for undergirding) which-were
carried loose and only used in stormy weather.]</p>

<p id="id00115">Now when they had carefully paid heed to everything, first they
distributed the benches by lot, two men occupying one seat; but the
middle bench they chose for Heracles and Ancaeus apart from the other
heroes, Ancaeus who dwelt in Tegea. For them alone they left the middle
bench just as it was and not by lot; and with one consent they entrusted
Tiphys with guarding the helm of the well-stemmed ship.</p>

<p id="id00116">Next, piling up shingle near the sea, they raised there an altar on the
shore to Apollo, under the name of Actius[1] and Embasius, and quickly
spread above it logs of dried olive-wood. Meantime the herdsmen of
Aeson's son had driven before them from the herd two steers. These the
younger comrades dragged near the altars, and the others brought lustral
water and barley meal, and Jason prayed, calling on Apollo the god of
his fathers:</p>

<p id="id00117">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of the shore.]</p>

<p id="id00118">"Hear, O King, that dwellest in Pagasae and the city Aesonis, the city
called by my father's name, thou who didst promise me, when I sought thy
oracle at Pytho, to show the fulfilment and goal of my journey, for thou
thyself hast been the cause of my venture; now do thou thyself guide the
ship with my comrades safe and sound, thither and back again to Hellas.
Then in thy honour hereafter we will lay again on thy altar the bright
offerings of bulls—all of us who return; and other gifts in countless
numbers I will bring to Pytho and Ortygia. And now, come, Far-darter,
accept this sacrifice at our hands, which first of all we have offered
thee for this ship on our embarcation; and grant, O King, that with a
prosperous weird I may loose the hawsers, relying on thy counsel, and
may the breeze blow softly with which we shall sail over the sea in fair
weather."</p>

<p id="id00119">He spake, and with his prayer cast the barley meal. And they two girded
themselves to slay the steers, proud Ancaeus and Heracles. The latter
with his club smote one steer mid-head on the brow, and falling in a
heap on the spot, it sank to the ground; and Ancaeus struck the broad
neck of the other with his axe of bronze, and shore through the mighty
sinews; and it fell prone on both its horns. Their comrades quickly
severed the victims' throats, and flayed the hides: they sundered the
joints and carved the flesh, then cut out the sacred thigh bones, and
covering them all together closely with fat burnt them upon cloven wood.
And Aeson's son poured out pure libations, and Idmon rejoiced beholding
the flame as it gleamed on every side from the sacrifice, and the smoke
of it mounting up with good omen in dark spiral columns; and quickly he
spake outright the will of Leto's son:</p>

<p id="id00120">"For you it is the will of heaven and destiny that ye shall return here
with the fleece; but meanwhile both going and returning, countless
trials await you. But it is my lot, by the hateful decree of a god, to
die somewhere afar off on the mainland of Asia. Thus, though I learnt my
fate from evil omens even before now, I have left my fatherland to
embark on the ship, that so after my embarking fair fame may be left me
in my house."</p>

<p id="id00121">Thus he spake; and the youths hearing the divine utterance rejoiced at
their return, but grief seized them for the fate of Idmon. Now at the
hour when the sun passes his noon-tide halt and the ploughlands are just
being shadowed by the rocks, as the sun slopes towards the evening dusk,
at that hour all the heroes spread leaves thickly upon the sand and lay
down in rows in front of the hoary surf-line; and near them were spread
vast stores of viands and sweet wine, which the cupbearers had drawn off
in pitchers; afterwards they told tales one to another in turn, such as
youths often tell when at the feast and the bowl they take delightful
pastime, and insatiable insolence is far away. But here the son of
Aeson, all helpless, was brooding over each event in his mind, like one
oppressed with thought. And Idas noted him and assailed him with loud
voice:</p>

<p id="id00122">"Son of Aeson, what is this plan thou art turning over in mind. Speak
out thy thought in the midst. Does fear come on and master thee, fear,
that confounds cowards? Be witness now my impetuous spear, wherewith in
wars I win renown beyond all others (nor does Zeus aid me so much as my
own spear), that no woe will be fatal, no venture will be unachieved,
while Idas follows, even though a god should oppose thee. Such a
helpmeet am I that thou bringest from Arene."</p>

<p id="id00123">He spake, and holding a brimming goblet in both hands drank off the
unmixed sweet wine; and his lips and dark cheeks were drenched with it;
and all the heroes clamoured together and Idmon spoke out openly:</p>

<p id="id00124">"Vain wretch, thou art devising destruction for thyself before the time.
Does the pure wine cause thy bold heart to swell in thy breast to thy
ruin, and has it set thee on to dishonour the gods? Other words of
comfort there are with which a man might encourage his comrade; but thou
hast spoken with utter recklessness. Such taunts, the tale goes, did the
sons of Aloeus once blurt out against the blessed gods, and thou dost no
wise equal them in valour; nevertheless they were both slain by the
swift arrows of Leto's son, mighty though they were."</p>

<p id="id00125">Thus he spake, and Aphareian Idas laughed out, loud and long, and eyeing
him askance replied with biting words:</p>

<p id="id00126">"Come now, tell me this by thy prophetic art, whether for me too the
gods will bring to pass such doom as thy father promised for the sons of
Aloeus. And bethink thee how thou wilt escape from my hands alive, if
thou art caught making a prophecy vain as the idle wind."</p>

<p id="id00127">Thus in wrath Idas reviled him, and the strife would have gone further
had not their comrades and Aeson's son himself with indignant cry
restrained the contending chiefs; and Orpheus lifted his lyre in his
left hand and made essay to sing.</p>

<p id="id00128">He sang how the earth, the heaven and the sea, once mingled together in
one form, after deadly strife were separated each from other; and how
the stars and the moon and the paths of the sun ever keep their fixed
place in the sky; and how the mountains rose, and how the resounding
rivers with their nymphs came into being and all creeping things. And he
sang how first of all Ophion and Eurynome, daughter of Ocean, held the
sway of snowy Olympus, and how through strength of arm one yielded his
prerogative to Cronos and the other to Rhea, and how they fell into the
waves of Ocean; but the other two meanwhile ruled over the blessed
Titan-gods, while Zeus, still a child and with the thoughts of a child,
dwelt in the Dictaean cave; and the earthborn Cyclopes had not yet armed
him with the bolt, with thunder and lightning; for these things give
renown to Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00129">He ended, and stayed his lyre and divine voice. But though he had ceased
they still bent forward with eagerness all hushed to quiet, with ears
intent on the enchanting strain; such a charm of song had he left behind
in their hearts. Not long after they mixed libations in honour of Zeus,
with pious rites as is customary, and poured them upon the burning
tongues, and bethought them of sleep in the darkness.</p>

<p id="id00130">Now when gleaming dawn with bright eyes beheld the lofty peaks of
Pelion, and the calm headlands were being drenched as the sea was
ruffled by the winds, then Tiphys awoke from sleep; and at once he
roused his comrades to go on board and make ready the oars. And a
strange cry did the harbour of Pagasae utter, yea and Pelian Argo
herself, urging them to set forth. For in her a beam divine had been
laid which Athena had brought from an oak of Dodona and fitted in the
middle of the stem. And the heroes went to the benches one after the
other, as they had previously assigned for each to row in his place, and
took their seats in due order near their fighting gear. In the middle
sat Ancaeus and mighty Heracles, and near him he laid his club, and
beneath his tread the ship's keel sank deep. And now the hawsers were
being slipped and they poured wine on the sea. But Jason with tears held
his eyes away from his fatherland. And just as youths set up a dance in
honour of Phoebus either in Pytho or haply in Ortygia, or by the waters
of Ismenus, and to the sound of the lyre round his altar all together in
time beat the earth with swiftly-moving feet; so they to the sound of
Orpheus' lyre smote with their oars the rushing sea-water, and the surge
broke over the blades; and on this side and on that the dark brine
seethed with foam, boiling terribly through the might of the sturdy
heroes. And their arms shone in the sun like flame as the ship sped on;
and ever their wake gleamed white far behind, like a path seen over a
green plain. On that day all the gods looked down from heaven upon the
ship and the might of the heroes, half-divine, the bravest of men then
sailing the sea; and on the topmost heights the nymphs of Pelion
wondered as they beheld the work of Itonian Athena, and the heroes
themselves wielding the oars. And there came down from the mountain-top
to the sea Chiron, son of Philyra, and where the white surf broke he
dipped his feet, and, often waving with his broad hand, cried out to
them at their departure, "Good speed and a sorrowless home-return!" And
with him his wife, bearing Peleus' son Achilles on her arm, showed the
child to his dear father.</p>

<p id="id00131">Now when they had left the curving shore of the harbour through the
cunning and counsel of prudent Tiphys son of Hagnias, who skilfully
handled the well-polished helm that he might guide them steadfastly,
then at length they set up the tall mast in the mast-box, and secured it
with forestays, drawing them taut on each side, and from it they let
down the sail when they had hauled it to the top-mast. And a breeze came
down piping shrilly; and upon the deck they fastened the ropes
separately round the well-polished pins, and ran quietly past the long
Tisaean headland. And for them the son of Oeagrus touched his lyre and
sang in rhythmical song of Artemis, saviour of ships, child of a
glorious sire, who hath in her keeping those peaks by the sea, and the
land of Iolcos; and the fishes came darting through the deep sea, great
mixed with small, and followed gambolling along the watery paths. And as
when in the track of the shepherd, their master, countless sheep follow
to the fold that have fed to the full of grass, and he goes before gaily
piping a shepherd's strain on his shrill reed; so these fishes followed;
and a chasing breeze ever bore the ship onward.</p>

<p id="id00132">And straightway the misty land of the Pelasgians, rich in cornfields,
sank out of sight, and ever speeding onward they passed the rugged sides
of Pelion; and the Sepian headland sank away, and Sciathus appeared in
the sea, and far off appeared Piresiae and the calm shore of Magnesia on
the mainland and the tomb of Dolops; here then in the evening, as the
wind blew against them, they put to land, and paying honour to him at
nightfall burnt sheep as victims, while the sea was tossed by the swell:
and for two days they lingered on the shore, but on the third day they
put forth the ship, spreading on high the broad sail. And even now men
call that beach Aphetae[1] of Argo.</p>

<p id="id00133">[Footnote 1: i.e. The Starting.]</p>

<p id="id00134">Thence going forward they ran past Meliboea, escaping a stormy beach and
surf-line. And in the morning they saw Homole close at hand leaning on
the sea, and skirted it, and not long after they were about to pass by
the outfall of the river Amyrus. From there they beheld Eurymenae and
the sea-washed ravines of Ossa and Olympus; next they reached the slopes
of Pallene, beyond the headland of Canastra, running all night with the
wind. And at dawn before them as they journeyed rose Athos, the Thracian
mountain, which with its topmost peak overshadows Lemnos, even as far as
Myrine, though it lies as far off as the space that a well-trimmed
merchantship would traverse up to mid-day. For them on that day, till
darkness fell, the breeze blew exceedingly fresh, and the sails of the
ship strained to it. But with the setting of the sun the wind left them,
and it was by the oars that they reached Lemnos, the Sintian isle.</p>

<p id="id00135">Here the whole of the men of the people together had been ruthlessly
slain through the transgressions of the women in the year gone by. For
the men had rejected their lawful wives, loathing them, and had
conceived a fierce passion for captive maids whom they themselves
brought across the sea from their forays in Thrace; for the terrible
wrath of Cypris came upon them, because for a long time they had grudged
her the honours due. O hapless women, and insatiate in jealousy to their
own ruin! Not their husbands alone with the captives did they slay on
account of the marriage-bed, but all the males at the same time, that
they might thereafter pay no retribution for the grim murder. And of all
the women, Hypsipyle alone spared her aged father Thoas, who was king
over the people; and she sent him in a hollow chest to drift over the
sea, if haply he should escape. And fishermen dragged him to shore at
the island of Oenoe, formerly Oenoe, but afterwards called Sicinus from
Sicinus, whom the water-nymph Oenoe bore to Thoas. Now for all the women
to tend kine, to don armour of bronze, and to cleave with the
plough-share the wheat-bearing fields, was easier than the works of
Athena, with which they were busied aforetime. Yet for all that did they
often gaze over the broad sea, in grievous fear against the Thracians'
coming. So when they saw Argo being rowed near the island, straightway
crowding in multitude from the gates of Myrine and clad in their harness
of war, they poured forth to the beach like ravening Thyiades; for they
deemed that the Thracians were come; and with them Hypsipyle, daughter
of Thoas, donned her father's harness. And they streamed down speechless
with dismay; such fear was wafted about them.</p>

<p id="id00136">Meantime from the ship the chiefs had sent Aethalides the swift herald,
to whose care they entrusted their messages and the wand of Hermes, his
sire, who had granted him a memory of all things, that never grew dim;
and not even now, though he has entered the unspeakable whirlpools of
Acheron, has forgetfulness swept over his soul, but its fixed doom is to
be ever changing its abode; at one time to be numbered among the
dwellers beneath the earth, at another to be in the light of the sun
among living men. But why need I tell at length tales of Aethalides? He
at that time persuaded Hypsipyle to receive the new-comers as the day
was waning into darkness; nor yet at dawn did they loose the ship's
hawsers to the breath of the north wind.</p>

<p id="id00137">Now the Lemnian women fared through the city and sat down to the
assembly, for Hypsipyle herself had so bidden. And when they were all
gathered together in one great throng straightway she spake among them
with stirring words:</p>

<p id="id00138">"O friends, come let us grant these men gifts to their hearts' desire,
such as it is fitting that they should take on ship-board, food and
sweet wine, in order that they may steadfastly remain outside our
towers, and may not, passing among us for need's sake, get to know us
all too well, and so an evil report be widely spread; for we have
wrought a terrible deed and in nowise will it be to their liking, should
they learn it. Such is our counsel now, but if any of you can devise a
better plan let her rise, for it was on this account that I summoned you
hither."</p>

<p id="id00139">Thus she spake and sat upon her father's seat of stone, and then rose up
her dear nurse Polyxo, for very age halting upon her withered feet,
bowed over a staff, and she was eager to address them. Near her were
seated four virgins, unwedded, crowned with white hair. And she stood in
the midst of the assembly and from her bent back she feebly raised her
neck and spake thus:</p>

<p id="id00140">"Gifts, as Hypsipyle herself wishes, let us send to the strangers, for
it is better to give them. But for you what device have ye to get profit
of your life if the Thracian host fall upon us, or some other foe, as
often happens among men, even as now this company is come unforeseen?
But if one of the blessed gods should turn this aside yet countless
other woes worse than battle, remain behind, when the aged women die off
and ye younger ones, without children, reach hateful old age. How then
will ye live, hapless ones? Will your oxen of their own accord yoke
themselves for the deep ploughlands and draw the earth-cleaving share
through the fallow, and forthwith, as the year comes round, reap the
harvest? Assuredly, though the fates till now have shunned me in horror,
I deem that in the coming year I shall put on the garment of earth, when
I have received my meed of burial even so as is right, before the evil
days draw near. But I bid you who are younger give good heed to this.
For now at your feet a way of escape lies open, if ye trust to the
strangers the care of your homes and all your stock and your glorious
city."</p>

<p id="id00141">Thus she spake, and the assembly was filled with clamour. For the word
pleased them. And after her straightway Hypsipyle rose up again, and
thus spake in reply.</p>

<p id="id00142">"If this purpose please you all, now will I even send a messenger to the
ship."</p>

<p id="id00143">She spake and addressed Iphinoe close at hand: "Go, Iphinoe, and beg
yonder man, whoever it is that leads this array, to come to our land
that I may tell him a word that pleases the heart of my people, and bid
the men themselves, if they wish, boldly enter the land and the city
with friendly intent."</p>

<p id="id00144">She spake, and dismissed the assembly, and thereafter started to return
home. And so Iphinoe came to the Minyae; and they asked with what intent
she had come among them. And quickly she addressed her questioners with
all speed in these words:</p>

<p id="id00145">"The maiden Hypsipyle daughter of Thoas, sent me on my way here to you,
to summon the captain of your ship, whoever he be, that she may tell him
a word that pleases the heart of the people, and she bids yourselves, if
ye wish it, straightway enter the land and the city with friendly
intent."</p>

<p id="id00146">Thus she spake and the speech of good omen pleased all. And they deemed
that Thoas was dead and that his beloved daughter Hypsipyle was queen,
and quickly they sent Jason on his way and themselves made ready to go.</p>

<p id="id00147">Now he had buckled round his shoulders a purple mantle of double fold,
the work of the Tritonian goddess, which Pallas had given him when she
first laid the keel-props of the ship Argo and taught him how to measure
timbers with the rule. More easily wouldst thou cast thy eyes upon the
sun at its rising than behold that blazing splendour. For indeed in the
middle the fashion thereof was red, but at the ends it was all purple,
and on each margin many separate devices had been skilfully inwoven.</p>

<p id="id00148">In it were the Cyclops seated at their imperishable work, forging a
thunderbolt for King Zeus; by now it was almost finished in its
brightness and still it wanted but one ray, which they were beating out
with their iron hammers as it spurted forth a breath of raging flame.</p>

<p id="id00149">In it too were the twin sons of Antiope, daughter of Asopus, Amphion and
Zethus, and Thebe still ungirt with towers was lying near, whose
foundations they were just then laying in eager haste. Zethus on his
shoulders was lifting the peak of a steep mountain, like a man toiling
hard, and Amphion after him, singing loud and clear on his golden lyre,
moved on, and a rock twice as large followed his footsteps.</p>

<p id="id00150">Next in order had been wrought Cytherea with drooping tresses, wielding
the swift shield of Ares; and from her shoulder to her left arm the
fastening of her tunic was loosed beneath her breast; and opposite in
the shield of bronze her image appeared clear to view as she stood.</p>

<p id="id00151">And in it there was a well-wooded pasturage of oxen; and about the oxen
the Teleboae and the sons of Electryon were fighting; the one party
defending themselves, the others, the Taphian raiders, longing to rob
them; and the dewy meadow was drenched with their blood, and the many
were overmastering the few herdsmen.</p>

<p id="id00152">And therein were fashioned two chariots, racing, and the one in front
Pelops was guiding, as he shook the reins, and with him was Hippodameia
at his side, and in pursuit Myrtilus urged his steeds, and with him
Oenomaus had grasped his couched spear, but fell as the axle swerved and
broke in the nave, while he was eager to pierce the back of Pelops.</p>

<p id="id00153">And in it was wrought Phoebus Apollo, a stripling not yet grown up, in
the act of shooting at mighty Tityos who was boldly dragging his mother
by her veil, Tityos whom glorious Elare bare, but Earth nursed him and
gave him second birth.</p>

<p id="id00154">And in it was Phrixus the Minyan as though he were in very deed
listening to the ram, while it was like one speaking. Beholding them
thou wouldst be silent and wouldst cheat thy soul with the hope of
hearing some wise speech from them, and long wouldst thou gaze with that
hope.</p>

<p id="id00155">Such then were the gifts of the Tritonian goddess Athena. And in his
right hand Jason held a far-darting spear, which Atalanta gave him once
as a gift of hospitality in Maenalus as she met him gladly; for she
eagerly desired to follow on that quest; but he himself of his own
accord prevented the maid, for he feared bitter strife on account of her
love.</p>

<p id="id00156">And he went on his way to the city like to a bright star, which maidens,
pent up in new-built chambers, behold as it rises above their homes, and
through the dark air it charms their eyes with its fair red gleam and
the maid rejoices, love-sick for the youth who is far away amid
strangers, for whom her parents are keeping her to be his bride; like to
that star the hero trod the way to the city. And when they had passed
within the gates and the city, the women of the people surged behind
them, delighting in the stranger, but he with his eyes fixed on the
ground fared straight on, till he reached the glorious palace of
Hypsipyle; and when he appeared the maids opened the folding doors,
fitted with well-fashioned panels. Here Iphinoe leading him quickly
through a fair porch set him upon a shining seat opposite her mistress,
but Hypsipyle turned her eyes aside and a blush covered her maiden
cheeks, yet for all her modesty she addressed him with crafty words:</p>

<p id="id00157">"Stranger, why stay ye so long outside our towers? for the city is not
inhabited by the men, but they, as sojourners, plough the wheat-bearing
fields of the Thracian mainland. And I will tell out truly all our evil
plight, that ye yourselves too may know it well. When my father Thoas
reigned over the citizens, then our folk starting from their homes used
to plunder from their ships the dwellings of the Thracians who live
opposite, and they brought back hither measureless booty and maidens
too. But the counsel of the baneful goddess Cypris was working out its
accomplishment, who brought upon them soul destroying infatuation. For
they hated their lawful wives, and, yielding to their own mad folly,
drove them from their homes; and they took to their beds the captives of
their spear, cruel ones. Long in truth we endured it, if haply again,
though late, they might change their purpose, but ever the bitter woe
grew, twofold. And the lawful children were being dishonoured in their
halls, and a bastard race was rising. And thus unmarried maidens and
widowed mothers too wandered uncared for through the city; no father
heeded his daughter ever so little even though he should see her done to
death before his eyes at the hands of an insolent step-dame, nor did
sons, as before, defend their mother against unseemly outrage; nor did
brothers care at heart for their sister. But in their homes, in the
dance, in the assembly and the banquet all their thought was only for
their captive maidens; until some god put desperate courage in our
hearts no more to receive our lords on their return from Thrace within
our towers so that they might either heed the right or might depart and
begone elsewhither, they and their captives. So they begged of us all
the male children that were left in the city and went back to where even
now they dwell on the snowy tilths of Thrace. Do ye therefore stay and
settle with us; and shouldst them desire to dwell here, and this finds
favour with thee, assuredly thou shalt have the prerogative of my father
Thoas; and I deem that thou wilt not scorn our land at all; for it is
deep-soiled beyond all other islands that lie in the Aegaean sea. But
come now, return to the ship and relate my words to thy comrades, and
stay not outside our city."</p>

<p id="id00158">She spoke, glozing over the murder that had been wrought upon the men;
and Jason addressed her in answer:</p>

<p id="id00159">"Hypsipyle, very dear to our hearts is the help we shall meet with,
which thou grantest to us who need thee. And I will return again to the
city when I have told everything in order due. But let the sovereignty
of the island be thine; it is not in scorn I yield it up, but grievous
trials urge me on."</p>

<p id="id00160">He spake, and touched her right hand; and quickly he turned to go back:
and round him the young maids on every side danced in countless numbers
in their joy till he passed through the gates. And then they came to the
shore in smooth-running wains, bearing with them many gifts, when now he
had related from beginning to end the speech which Hypsipyle had spoken
when she summoned them; and the maids readily led the men back to their
homes for entertainment. For Cypris stirred in them a sweet desire, for
the sake of Hephaestus of many counsels, in order that Lemnos might be
again inhabited by men and not be ruined.</p>

<p id="id00161">Thereupon Aeson's son started to go to the royal home of Hypsipyle; and
the rest went each his way as chance took them, all but Heracles; for he
of his own will was left behind by the ship and a few chosen comrades
with him. And straightway the city rejoiced with dances and banquets,
being filled with the steam of sacrifice; and above all the immortals
they propitiated with songs and sacrifices the illustrious son of Hera
and Cypris herself. And the sailing was ever delayed from one day to
another; and long would they have lingered there, had not Heracles,
gathering together his comrades apart from the women, thus addressed
them with reproachful words:</p>

<p id="id00162">"Wretched men, does the murder of kindred keep us from our native land?
Or is it in want of marriage that we have come hither from thence, in
scorn of our countrywomen? Does it please us to dwell here and plough
the rich soil of Lemnos? No fair renown shall we win by thus tarrying so
long with stranger women; nor will some god seize and give us at our
prayer a fleece that moves of itself. Let us then return each to his
own; but him leave ye to rest all day long in the embrace of Hypsipyle
until he has peopled Lemnos with men-children, and so there come to him
great glory."</p>

<p id="id00163">Thus did he chide the band; but no one dared to meet his eye or to utter
a word in answer. But just as they were in the assembly they made ready
their departure in all haste, and the women came running towards them,
when they knew their intent. And as when bees hum round fair lilies
pouring forth from their hive in the rock, and all around the dewy
meadow rejoices, and they gather the sweet fruit, flitting from one to
another; even so the women eagerly poured forth, clustering round the
men with loud lament, and greeted each one with hands and voice, praying
the blessed gods to grant him a safe return. And so Hypsipyle too
prayed, seizing the hands of Aeson's son, and her tears flowed for the
loss of her lover:</p>

<p id="id00164">"Go, and may heaven bring thee back again with thy comrades unharmed,
bearing to the king the golden fleece, even as thou wilt and thy heart
desireth; and this island and my father's sceptre will be awaiting thee,
if on thy return hereafter thou shouldst choose to come hither again;
and easily couldst thou gather a countless host of men from other
cities. But thou wilt not have this desire, nor do I myself forbode that
so it will be. Still remember Hypsipyle when thou art far away and when
thou hast returned; and leave me some word of bidding, which I will
gladly accomplish, if haply heaven shall grant me to be a mother."</p>

<p id="id00165">And Aeson's son in admiration thus replied: "Hypsipyle, so may all these
things prove propitious by the favour of the blessed gods. But do thou
hold a nobler thought of me, since by the grace of Pelias it is enough
for me to dwell in my native land; may the gods only release me from my
toils. But if it is not my destiny to sail afar and return to the land
of Hellas, and if thou shouldst bear a male child, send him when grown
up to Pelasgian Iolcus, to heal the grief of my father and mother if so
be that he find them still living, in order that, far away from the
king, they may be cared for by their own hearth in their home."</p>

<p id="id00166">He spake, and mounted the ship first of all; and so the rest of the
chiefs followed, and, sitting in order, seized the oars; and Argus
loosed for them the hawsers from under the sea-beaten rock. Whereupon
they mightily smote the water with their long oars, and in the evening
by the injunctions of Orpheus they touched at the island of Electra,[1]
daughter of Atlas, in order that by gentle initiation they might learn
the rites that may not be uttered, and so with greater safety sail over
the chilling sea. Of these I will make no further mention; but I bid
farewell to the island itself and the indwelling deities, to whom belong
those mysteries, which it is not lawful for me to sing.</p>

<p id="id00167">[Footnote 1: Samothrace.]</p>

<p id="id00168">Thence did they row with eagerness over the depths of the black Sea,
having on the one side the land of the Thracians, on the other Imbros on
the south; and as the sun was just setting they reached the foreland of
the Chersonesus. There a strong south wind blew for them; and raising
the sails to the breeze they entered the swift stream of the maiden
daughter of Athamas; and at dawn the sea to the north was left behind
and at night they were coasting inside the Rhoeteian shore, with the
land of Ida on their right. And leaving Dardania they directed their
course to Abydus, and after it they sailed past Percote and the sandy
beach of Abarnis and divine Pityeia. And in that night, as the ship sped
on by sail and oar, they passed right through the Hellespont
dark-gleaming with eddies.</p>

<p id="id00169">There is a lofty island inside the Propontis, a short distance from the
Phrygian mainland with its rich cornfields, sloping to the sea, where an
isthmus in front of the mainland is flooded by the waves, so low does it
lie. And the isthmus has double shores, and they lie beyond the river
Aesepus, and the inhabitants round about call the island the Mount of
Bears. And insolent and fierce men dwell there, Earthborn, a great
marvel to the neighbours to behold; for each one has six mighty hands to
lift up, two from his sturdy shoulders, and four below, fitting close to
his terrible sides. And about the isthmus and the plain the Doliones had
their dwelling, and over them Cyzicus son of Aeneus was king, whom
Aenete the daughter of goodly Eusorus bare. But these men the Earthborn
monsters, fearful though they were, in nowise harried, owing to the
protection of Poseidon; for from him had the Doliones first sprung.
Thither Argo pressed on, driven by the winds of Thrace, and the Fair
haven received her as she sped. There they cast away their small
anchorstone by the advice of Tiphys and left it beneath a fountain, the
fountain of Artacie; and they took another meet for their purpose, a
heavy one; but the first, according to the oracle of the Far-Darter, the
Ionians, sons of Neleus, in after days laid to be a sacred stone, as was
right, in the temple of Jasonian Athena.</p>

<p id="id00170">Now the Doliones and Cyzicus himself all came together to meet them with
friendliness, and when they knew of the quest and their lineage welcomed
them with hospitality, and persuaded them to row further and to fasten
their ship's hawsers at the city harbour. Here they built an altar to
Ecbasian[1] Apollo and set it up on the beach, and gave heed to
sacrifices. And the king of his own bounty gave them sweet wine and
sheep in their need; for he had heard a report that whenever a godlike
band of heroes should come, straightway he should meet it with gentle
words and should have no thought of war. As with Jason, the soft down
was just blooming on his chin, nor yet had it been his lot to rejoice in
children, but still in his palace his wife was untouched by the pangs of
child-birth, the daughter of Percosian Merops, fair-haired Cleite, whom
lately by priceless gifts he had brought from her father's home from the
mainland opposite. But even so he left his chamber and bridal bed and
prepared a banquet among the strangers, casting all fears from his
heart. And they questioned one another in turn. Of them would he learn
the end of their voyage and the injunctions of Pelias; while they
enquired about the cities of the people round and all the gulf of the
wide Propontis; but further he could not tell them for all their desire
to learn. In the morning they climbed mighty Dindymum that they might
themselves behold the various paths of that sea; and they brought their
ship from its former anchorage to the harbour, Chytus; and the path they
trod is named the path of Jason.</p>

<p id="id00171">[Footnote 1: i.e. god of disembarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00172">But the Earthborn men on the other side rushed down from the mountain
and with crags below blocked up the mouth of vast Chytus towards the
sea, like men lying in wait for a wild beast within. But there Heracles
had been left behind with the younger heroes and he quickly bent his
back-springing bow against the monsters and brought them to earth one
after another; and they in their turn raised huge ragged rocks and
hurled them. For these dread monsters too, I ween, the goddess Hera,
bride of Zeus, had nurtured to be a trial for Heracles. And therewithal
came the rest of the martial heroes returning to meet the foe before
they reached the height of outlook, and they fell to the slaughter of
the Earthborn, receiving them with arrows and spears until they slew
them all as they rushed fiercely to battle. And as when woodcutters cast
in rows upon the beach long trees just hewn down by their axes, in order
that, once sodden with brine, they may receive the strong bolts; so
these monsters at the entrance of the foam-fringed harbour lay stretched
one after another, some in heaps bending their heads and breasts into
the salt waves with their limbs spread out above on the land; others
again were resting their heads on the sand of the shore and their feet
in the deep water, both alike a prey to birds and fishes at once.</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:46:28 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:46:28 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-03-24 19:46:53 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-03-24 19:46:53 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:46:53 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-24 19:47:11 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:11 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:47:12 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:13 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:47:13 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:14 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:16 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:47:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:18 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Argonautica, by Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00001">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 2em">Title: The Argonautica</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: November 8, 2004 [EBook #13977]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ARGONAUTICA ***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 4em">Produced by Ted Garvin, Aaron A. Reed and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net</p>

<h1 id="id00008" style="margin-top: 6em">                    APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h1>

<h5 id="id00009">                     THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 2em">              With An English Translation By</p>

<h5 id="id00011">                     R.C. SEATON, M.A.</h5>

<p id="id00012">        Formerly Fellow Of Jesus College, Cambridge</p>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 3em">                        <i> 1912 </i></p>

<h1 id="id00014" style="margin-top: 5em">CONTENTS</h1>

<h4 id="id00015" style="margin-top: 2em">INTRODUCTION
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BOOK I
BOOK II
BOOK III
BOOK IV
STEMMA MEDEAE
INDEX</h4>

<h2 id="id00016" style="margin-top: 4em">INTRODUCTION</h2>

<p id="id00017" style="margin-top: 2em">Much has been written about the chronology of Alexandrian literature and
the famous Library, founded by Ptolemy Soter, but the dates of the chief
writers are still matters of conjecture. The birth of Apollonius Rhodius
is placed by scholars at various times between 296 and 260 B.C., while
the year of his death is equally uncertain. In fact, we have very little
information on the subject. There are two "lives" of Apollonius in the
Scholia, both derived from an earlier one which is lost. From these we
learn that he was of Alexandria by birth,[1] that he lived in the time
of the Ptolemies, and was a pupil of Callimachus; that while still a
youth he composed and recited in public his <i>Argonautica</i>, and that the
poem was condemned, in consequence of which he retired to Rhodes; that
there he revised his poem, recited it with great applause, and hence
called himself a Rhodian. The second "life" adds: "Some say that he
returned to Alexandria and again recited his poem with the utmost
success, so that he was honoured with the libraries of the Museum[2] and
was buried with Callimachus." The last sentence may be interpreted by
the notice of Suidas, who informs us that Apollonius was a contemporary
of Eratosthenes, Euphorion and Timarchus, in the time of Ptolemy
Euergetes, and that he succeeded Eratosthenes in the headship of the
Alexandrian Library. Suidas also informs us elsewhere that Aristophanes
at the age of sixty-two succeeded Apollonius in this office. Many modern
scholars deny the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius for chronological
reasons, and there is considerable difficulty about it. The date of
Callimachus' <i>Hymn to Apollo,</i> which closes with some lines (105-113)
that are admittedly an allusion to Apollonius, may be put with much
probability at 248 or 247 B.C. Apollonius must at that date have been at
least twenty years old. Eratosthenes died 196-193 B.C. This would make
Apollonius seventy-two to seventy-five when he succeeded Eratosthenes.
This is not impossible, it is true, but it is difficult. But the
difficulty is taken away if we assume with Ritschl that Eratosthenes
resigned his office some years before his death, which allows us to put
the birth of Apollonius at about 280, and would solve other
difficulties. For instance, if the Librarians were buried within the
precincts, it would account for the burial of Apollonius next to
Callimachus—Eratosthenes being still alive. However that may be, it is
rather arbitrary to take away the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius,
which is clearly asserted by Suidas, on account of chronological
calculations which are themselves uncertain. Moreover, it is more
probable that the words following "some say" in the second "life" are a
remnant of the original life than a conjectural addition, because the
first "life" is evidently incomplete, nothing being said about the end
of Apollonius' career.</p>

<p id="id00018">[Footnote 1: "Or of Naucratis," according to Aelian and Athenaeus.]</p>

<p id="id00019">[Footnote 2: [Greek: hôs kai tôn bibliothêkôn tou mouseiou axiôthênai
auton.]]</p>

<p id="id00020">The principal event in his life, so far as we know, was the quarrel with
his master Callimachus, which was most probably the cause of his
condemnation at Alexandria and departure to Rhodes. This quarrel appears
to have arisen from differences of literary aims and taste, but, as
literary differences often do, degenerated into the bitterest personal
strife. There are references to the quarrel in the writings of both.
Callimachus attacks Apollonius in the passage at the end of the <i>Hymn to
Apollo</i>, already mentioned, also probably in some epigrams, but most of
all in his <i>Ibis</i>, of which we have an imitation, or perhaps nearly a
translation, in Ovid's poem of the same name. On the part of Apollonius
there is a passage in the third book of the <i>Argonautica</i> (11. 927-947)
which is of a polemical nature and stands out from the context, and the
well-known savage epigram upon Callimachus.[1] Various combinations have
been attempted by scholars, notably by Couat, in his <i>Poésie
Alexandrine</i>, to give a connected account of the quarrel, but we have
not <i>data</i> sufficient to determine the order of the attacks, and
replies, and counter-attacks. The <i>Ibis</i> has been thought to mark the
termination of the feud on the curious ground that it was impossible for
abuse to go further. It was an age when literary men were more inclined
to comment on writings of the past than to produce original work.
Literature was engaged in taking stock of itself. Homer was, of course,
professedly admired by all, but more admired than imitated. Epic poetry
was out of fashion and we find many epigrams of this period—some by
Callimachus—directed against the "cyclic" poets, by whom were meant at
that time those who were always dragging in conventional and commonplace
epithets and phrases peculiar to epic poetry. Callimachus was in
accordance with the spirit of the age when he proclaimed "a great book"
to be "a great evil," and sought to confine poetical activity within the
narrowest limits both of subject and space. Theocritus agreed with him,
both in principle and practice. The chief characteristics of
Alexandrianism are well summarized by Professor Robinson Ellis as
follows: "Precision in form and metre, refinement in diction, a learning
often degenerating into pedantry and obscurity, a resolute avoidance of
everything commonplace in subject, sentiment or allusion." These traits
are more prominent in Callimachus than in Apollonius, but they are
certainly to be seen in the latter. He seems to have written the
<i>Argonautica</i> out of bravado, to show that he <i>could</i> write an epic
poem. But the influence of the age was too strong. Instead of the unity
of an Epic we have merely a series of episodes, and it is the great
beauty and power of one of these episodes that gives the poem its
permanent value—the episode of the love of Jason and Medea. This
occupies the greater part of the third book. The first and second books
are taken up with the history of the voyage to Colchis, while the fourth
book describes the return voyage. These portions constitute a metrical
guide book, filled no doubt with many pleasing episodes, such as the
rape of Hylas, the boxing match between Pollux and Amycus, the account
of Cyzicus, the account of the Amazons, the legend of Talos, but there
is no unity running through the poem beyond that of the voyage itself.</p>

<p id="id00021">[Footnote 1: Anth. Pal. xi. 275.]</p>

<p id="id00022">The Tale of the Argonauts had been told often before in verse and prose,
and many authors' names are given in the Scholia to Apollonius, but
their works have perished. The best known earlier account that we have
is that in Pindar's fourth Pythian ode, from which Apollonius has taken
many details. The subject was one for an epic poem, for its unity might
have been found in the working out of the expiation due for the crime of
Athamas; but this motive is barely mentioned by our author.</p>

<p id="id00023">As we have it, the motive of the voyage is the command of Pelias to
bring back the golden fleece, and this command is based on Pelias'
desire to destroy Jason, while the divine aid given to Jason results
from the intention of Hera to punish Pelias for his neglect of the
honour due to her. The learning of Apollonius is not deep but it is
curious; his general sentiments are not according to the Alexandrian
standard, for they are simple and obvious. In the mass of material from
which he had to choose the difficulty was to know what to omit, and much
skill is shewn in fusing into a tolerably harmonious whole conflicting
mythological and historical details. He interweaves with his narrative
local legends and the founding of cities, accounts of strange customs,
descriptions of works of art, such as that of Ganymede and Eros playing
with knucklebones,[1] but prosaically calls himself back to the point
from these pleasing digressions by such an expression as "but this would
take me too far from my song." His business is the straightforward tale
and nothing else. The astonishing geography of the fourth book reminds
us of the interest of the age in that subject, stimulated no doubt by
the researches of Eratosthenes and others.</p>

<p id="id00024">[Footnote 1: iii. 117-124.]</p>

<p id="id00025">The language is that of the conventional epic. Apollonius seems to have
carefully studied Homeric glosses, and gives many examples of isolated
uses, but his choice of words is by no means limited to Homer. He freely
avails himself of Alexandrian words and late uses of Homeric words.
Among his contemporaries Apollonius suffers from a comparison with
Theocritus, who was a little his senior, but he was much admired by
Roman writers who derived inspiration from the great classical writers
of Greece by way of Alexandria. In fact Alexandria was a useful bridge
between Athens and Rome. The <i>Argonautica</i> was translated by Varro
Atacinus, copied by Ovid and Virgil, and minutely studied by Valerius
Flaccus in his poem of the same name. Some of his finest passages have
been appropriated and improved upon by Virgil by the divine right of
superior genius.[1] The subject of love had been treated in the romantic
spirit before the time of Apollonius in writings that have perished, for
instance, in those of Antimachus of Colophon, but the <i>Argonautica</i> is
perhaps the first poem still extant in which the expression of this
spirit is developed with elaboration. The Medea of Apollonius is the
direct precursor of the Dido of Virgil, and it is the pathos and passion
of the fourth book of the Aeneid that keep alive many a passage of
Apollonius.</p>

<p id="id00026">[Footnote 1: e.g. compare <i>Aen.</i> iv. 305 foll, with Ap. Rh. iv. 355
foll., <i>Aen.</i> iv. 327-330 with Ap. Rh. i. 897, 898, <i>Aen.</i> iv. 522
foll., with Ap. Rh. iii. 744 foll.]</p>

<h2 id="id00027" style="margin-top: 4em">BIBLIOGRAPHY.</h2>

<p id="id00028" style="margin-top: 2em">Two editions of the Argonautica were published by Apollonius. Of these
we have only the second. The Scholia preserve a few passages of the
first edition, from which the second seems to have differed only
slightly. The old opinion that our MSS. preserve any traces of the first
edition has long been given up. The principal MSS. are the following:—</p>

<p id="id00029" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Laurentian, also called the Medicean, XXXII. 9, of the early
     eleventh century, the excellent MS. at Florence which contains
     Sophocles, Aeschylus and Apollonius Rhodius. This is far the best
     authority for the text (here denoted by L).</p>

<p id="id00030" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Guelferbytanus of the thirteenth century, which closely agrees
     with another Laurentian, XXXII. 16, of the same date (here denoted
     by G and L^2 respectively).</p>

<p id="id00031">There were in the early eleventh century two types of text, the first
being best known to us by L, the second by G and L^2 and the corrections
made in L. Quotations in the Etymologicum Magnum agree with the second
type and show that this is as old as the fifth century. Besides these
there are, of inferior MSS., four Vatican and five Parisian which are
occasionally useful. Most of them have Scholia; the best Scholia are
those of L.</p>

<p id="id00032">The principal editions are:—</p>

<p id="id00033">Florence, 1496, 4to. This is the <i>editio princeps</i>, by Lascaris, based
on L, with Scholia, a very rare book.</p>

<p id="id00034">Venice, 1521, 8vo. The Aldine, by Franciscus Asulanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00035">Paris, 1541, 8vo, based on the Parisian MSS.</p>

<p id="id00036">Geneva, 1574, 4to, by Stephanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00037">Leyden, 1641, 2 vols., 8vo, by J. Hölzlin, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00038">Oxford, 1777, 2 vols., 4to, by J. Shaw, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00039">Strassburg, 1780, 8vo and 4to, by R.F.P. Brunck.</p>

<p id="id00040">Rome, 1791-1794, 2 vols., 4to, by Flangini, with an Italian translation.</p>

<p id="id00041">Leipzig, 1797, 8vo, by Ch. D. Beck, with a Latin version. A second
volume, to contain the Scholia and a commentary, was never published.</p>

<p id="id00042">Leipzig, 1810-1813, 2 vols., 8vo. A second edition of Brunck by G.H.
Schäfer, with the Florentine and Parisian Scholia, the latter printed
for the first time.</p>

<p id="id00043">Leipzig, 1828, 8vo, by A. Wellauer, with the Scholia, both Florentine
and Parisian.</p>

<p id="id00044">Paris, 1811, 4to, by F.S. Lehrs, with a Latin version. In the Didot
series.</p>

<p id="id00045">Leipzig, 1852, 8vo, by R. Merkel, "ad cod. MS. Laurentianum." The<br />

Teubner Text.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00046">Leipzig, 1854, 2 vols., 8vo, by R. Merkel. The second volume contains<br />

Merkel's prolegomena and the Scholia to L, edited by H. Keil.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00047">Oxford, 1900, 8vo, by R.C. Seaton. In the "Scriptorum Classicorum<br />

Bibliotheca Oxoniensis" series.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00048">The text of the present edition is, with a few exceptions, that of the
Oxford edition prepared by me for the Delegates of the Clarendon Press,
whom I hereby thank for their permission to use it.</p>

<p id="id00049">The English translations of Apollonius are as follows:—</p>

<p id="id00050">By E.B. Greene, by F. Fawkes, both 1780; by W. Preston, 1803. None of
these are of value. There is a prose translation by E.P. Coleridge in
the Bohn Series. The most recent and also the best is a verse
translation by Mr. A.S. Way, 1901, in "The Temple Classics."</p>

<p id="id00051">I may also mention the excellent translation in French by Prof. H. de La<br />

Ville de Mirmont of the University of Bordeaux, 1892.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00052">Upon Alexandrian literature in general Couat's <i>Poésie Alexandrine, sous
les trois premiers Ptoletmées</i>, 1882, may be recommended. Susemihl's
<i>Geschichte der Griechischen Litteratur in der Alexandinerzeit</i>, 2
vols., 1891, is a perfect storehouse of facts and authorities, but more
adapted for reference than for general reading. Morris' <i>Life and Death
of Jason</i> is a poem that in many passages singularly resembles
Apollonius in its pessimistic tone and spirit.</p>

<h2 id="id00053" style="margin-top: 4em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h2>

<h5 id="id00054">THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<h5 id="id00055">BOOK I</h5>

<h4 id="id00056" style="margin-top: 2em">SUMMARY OF BOOK I</h4>

<p id="id00057" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     Invocation of Phoebus and cause of the expedition
     (1-22).—Catalogue of the Argonauts (23-233).—March of the heroes
     to the port: farewell of Jason and Alcimede
     (234-305).—Preparations for departure and launching of Argo:
     sacrifice to Apollo: prediction of Idmon (306-447).—The festival,
     insolence of Idas, song of Orpheus and departure (448-558).—Voyage
     along the coast of Thessaly and across to Lemnos (559-608).—Recent
     history of Lemnos and stay of the Argonauts there: farewell of
     Jason and Hypsipyle (609-909).—Voyage from Lemnos by Samothrace to
     the Propontis: reception by the Doliones of Cyzicus
     (910-988).—Fight against the Giants: departure and return of the
     Argonauts to Cyzicus: sacrifice to Rhea on Mt. Dindymum
     (989-1152).—Arrival among the Mysians: rape of Hylas, which is
     announced to Heracles (1153-1260).—While Heracles and Polyphemus
     search for Hylas they are left behind (1261-1328).—The fate of
     Heracles and Polyphemus: arrival of Argo among the Bebrycians
     (1329-1362).</p>

<h3 id="id00058" style="margin-top: 3em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS THE ARGONAUTICA</h3>

<h5 id="id00059">BOOK I</h5>

<p id="id00060" style="margin-top: 2em">Beginning with thee, O Phoebus, I will recount the famous deeds of men
of old, who, at the behest of King Pelias, down through the mouth of
Pontus and between the Cyanean rocks, sped well-benched Argo in quest of
the golden fleece.</p>

<p id="id00061">Such was the oracle that Pelias heard, that a hateful doom awaited
him—to be slain at the prompting of the man whom he should see coming
forth from the people with but one sandal. And no long time after, in
accordance with that true report, Jason crossed the stream of wintry
Anaurus on foot, and saved one sandal from the mire, but the other he
left in the depths held back by the flood. And straightway he came to
Pelias to share the banquet which the king was offering to his father
Poseidon and the rest of the gods, though he paid no honour to Pelasgian
Hera. Quickly the king saw him and pondered, and devised for him the
toil of a troublous voyage, in order that on the sea or among strangers
he might lose his home-return.</p>

<p id="id00062">The ship, as former bards relate, Argus wrought by the guidance of
Athena. But now I will tell the lineage and the names of the heroes, and
of the long sea-paths and the deeds they wrought in their wanderings;
may the Muses be the inspirers of my song!</p>

<p id="id00063">First then let us name Orpheus whom once Calliope bare, it is said,
wedded to Thracian Oeagrus, near the Pimpleian height. Men say that he
by the music of his songs charmed the stubborn rocks upon the mountains
and the course of rivers. And the wild oak-trees to this day, tokens of
that magic strain, that grow at Zone on the Thracian shore, stand in
ordered ranks close together, the same which under the charm of his lyre
he led down from Pieria. Such then was Orpheus whom Aeson's son welcomed
to share his toils, in obedience to the behest of Cheiron, Orpheus ruler
of Bistonian Pieria.</p>

<p id="id00064">Straightway came Asterion, whom Cometes begat by the waters of eddying<br />

Apidanus; he dwelt at Peiresiae near the Phylleian mount, where mighty<br />

Apidanus and bright Enipeus join their streams, coming together from<br />

afar.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00065">Next to them from Larisa came Polyphemus, son of Eilatus, who aforetime
among the mighty Lapithae, when they were arming themselves against the
Centaurs, fought in his younger days; now his limbs were grown heavy
with age, but his martial spirit still remained, even as of old.</p>

<p id="id00066">Nor was Iphiclus long left behind in Phylace, the uncle of Aeson's son;
for Aeson had wedded his sister Alcimede, daughter of Phylacus: his
kinship with her bade him be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00067">Nor did Admetus, the lord of Pherae rich in sheep, stay behind beneath
the peak of the Chalcodonian mount.</p>

<p id="id00068">Nor at Alope stayed the sons of Hermes, rich in corn-land, well skilled
in craftiness, Erytus and Echion, and with them on their departure their
kinsman Aethalides went as the third; him near the streams of Amphrysus
Eupolemeia bare, the daughter of Myrmidon, from Phthia; the two others
were sprung from Antianeira, daughter of Menetes.</p>

<p id="id00069">From rich Gyrton came Coronus, son of Caeneus, brave, but not braver
than his father. For bards relate that Caeneus though still living
perished at the hands of the Centaurs, when apart from other chiefs he
routed them; and they, rallying against him, could neither bend nor slay
him; but unconquered and unflinching he passed beneath the earth,
overwhelmed by the downrush of massy pines.</p>

<p id="id00070">There came too Titaresian Mopsus, whom above all men the son of Leto
taught the augury of birds; and Eurydamas the son of Ctimenus; he dwelt
at Dolopian Ctimene near the Xynian lake.</p>

<p id="id00071">Moreover Actor sent his son Menoetius from Opus that he might accompany
the chiefs.</p>

<p id="id00072">Eurytion followed and strong Eribotes, one the son of Teleon, the other
of Irus, Actor's son; the son of Teleon renowned Eribotes, and of Irus
Eurytion. A third with them was Oileus, peerless in courage and well
skilled to attack the flying foe, when they break their ranks.</p>

<p id="id00073">Now from Euboea came Canthus eager for the quest, whom Canethus son of
Abas sent; but he was not destined to return to Cerinthus. For fate had
ordained that he and Mopsus, skilled in the seer's art, should wander
and perish in the furthest ends of Libya. For no ill is too remote for
mortals to incur, seeing that they buried them in Libya, as far from the
Colchians as is the space that is seen between the setting and the
rising of the sun.</p>

<p id="id00074">To him Clytius and Iphitus joined themselves, the warders of Oechalia,
sons of Eurytus the ruthless, Eurytus, to whom the Far-shooting god gave
his bow; but he had no joy of the gift; for of his own choice he strove
even with the giver.</p>

<p id="id00075">After them came the sons of Aeacus, not both together, nor from the same
spot; for they settled far from Aegina in exile, when in their folly
they had slain their brother Phocus. Telamon dwelt in the Attic island;
but Peleus departed and made his home in Phthia.</p>

<p id="id00076">After them from Cecropia came warlike Butes, son of brave Teleon, and
Phalerus of the ashen spear. Alcon his father sent him forth; yet no
other sons had he to care for his old age and livelihood. But him, his
well-beloved and only son, he sent forth that amid bold heroes he might
shine conspicuous. But Theseus, who surpassed all the sons of
Erechtheus, an unseen bond kept beneath the land of Taenarus, for he had
followed that path with Peirithous; assuredly both would have lightened
for all the fulfilment of their toil.</p>

<p id="id00077">Tiphys, son of Hagnias, left the Siphaean people of the Thespians, well
skilled to foretell the rising wave on the broad sea, and well skilled
to infer from sun and star the stormy winds and the time for sailing.
Tritonian Athena herself urged him to join the band of chiefs, and he
came among them a welcome comrade. She herself too fashioned the swift
ship; and with her Argus, son of Arestor, wrought it by her counsels.
Wherefore it proved the most excellent of all ships that have made trial
of the sea with oars.</p>

<p id="id00078">After them came Phlias from Araethyrea, where he dwelt in affluence by
the favour of his father Dionysus, in his home by the springs of Asopus.</p>

<p id="id00079">From Argos came Talaus and Areius, sons of Bias, and mighty Leodocus,
all of whom Pero daughter of Neleus bare; on her account the Aeolid
Melampus endured sore affliction in the steading of Iphiclus.</p>

<p id="id00080">Nor do we learn that Heracles of the mighty heart disregarded the eager
summons of Aeson's son. But when he heard a report of the heroes'
gathering and had readied Lyrceian Argos from Arcadia by the road along
which he carried the boar alive that fed in the thickets of Lampeia,
near the vast Erymanthian swamp, the boar bound with chains he put down
from his huge shoulders at the entrance to the market-place of Mycenae;
and himself of his own will set out against the purpose of Eurystheus;
and with him went Hylas, a brave comrade, in the flower of youth, to
bear his arrows and to guard his bow.</p>

<p id="id00081">Next to him came a scion of the race of divine Danaus, Nauplius. He was
the son of Clytonaeus son of Naubolus; Naubolus was son of Lernus;
Lernus we know was the son of Proetus son of Nauplius; and once Amymone
daughter of Danaus, wedded to Poseidon, bare Nauplius, who surpassed all
men in naval skill.</p>

<p id="id00082">Idmon came last of all them that dwelt at Argos, though he had learnt
his own fate by augury, he came, that the people might not grudge him
fair renown. He was not in truth the son of Abas, but Leto's son himself
begat him to be numbered among the illustrious Aeolids; and himself
taught him the art of prophecy—to pay heed to birds and to observe the
signs of the burning sacrifice.</p>

<p id="id00083">Moreover Aetolian Leda sent from Sparta strong Polydeuces and Castor,
skilled to guide swift-footed steeds; these her dearly-loved sons she
bare at one birth in the house of Tyndareus; nor did she forbid their
departure; for she had thoughts worthy of the bride of Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00084">The sons of Aphareus, Lynceus and proud Idas, came from Arene, both
exulting in their great strength; and Lynceus too excelled in keenest
sight, if the report is true that that hero could easily direct his
sight even beneath the earth.</p>

<p id="id00085">And with them Neleian Periclymenus set out to come, eldest of all the
sons of godlike Neleus who were born at Pylos; Poseidon had given him
boundless strength and granted him that whatever shape he should crave
during the fight, that he should take in the stress of battle.</p>

<p id="id00086">Moreover from Arcadia came Amphidamas and Cepheus, who inhabited Tegea
and the allotment of Apheidas, two sons of Aleus; and Ancaeus followed
them as the third, whom his father Lycurgus sent, the brother older than
both. But he was left in the city to care for Aleus now growing old,
while he gave his son to join his brothers. Ancaeus went clad in the
skin of a Maenalian bear, and wielding in his right hand a huge
two-edged battleaxe. For his armour his grandsire had hidden in the
house's innermost recess, to see if he might by some means still stay
his departure.</p>

<p id="id00087">There came also Augeias, whom fame declared to be the son of Helios; he
reigned over the Eleans, glorying in his wealth; and greatly he desired
to behold the Colchian land and Aeetes himself the ruler of the
Colchians.</p>

<p id="id00088">Asterius and Amphion, sons of Hyperasius, came from Achaean Pellene,
which once Pelles their grandsire founded on the brows of Aegialus.</p>

<p id="id00089">After them from Taenarus came Euphemus whom, most swift-footed of men,
Europe, daughter of mighty Tityos, bare to Poseidon. He was wont to skim
the swell of the grey sea, and wetted not his swift feet, but just
dipping the tips of his toes was borne on the watery path.</p>

<p id="id00090">Yea, and two other sons of Poseidon came; one Erginus, who left the
citadel of glorious Miletus, the other proud Ancaeus, who left
Parthenia, the seat of Imbrasion Hera; both boasted their skill in
sea-craft and in war.</p>

<p id="id00091">After them from Calydon came the son of Oeneus, strong Meleagrus, and
Laocoon—Laocoon the brother of Oeneus, though not by the same mother,
for a serving-woman bare him; him, now growing old, Oeneus sent to guard
his son: thus Meleagrus, still a youth, entered the bold band of heroes.
No other had come superior to him, I ween, except Heracles, if for one
year more he had tarried and been nurtured among the Aetolians. Yea, and
his uncle, well skilled to fight whether with the javelin or hand to
hand, Iphiclus son of Thestius, bare him company on his way.</p>

<p id="id00092">With him came Palaemonius, son of Olenian Lernus, of Lernus by repute,
but his birth was from Hephaestus; and so he was crippled in his feet,
but his bodily frame and his valour no one would dare to scorn.
Wherefore he was numbered among all the chiefs, winning fame for Jason.</p>

<p id="id00093">From the Phocians came Iphitus sprung from Naubolus son of Ornytus; once
he had been his host when Jason went to Pytho to ask for a response
concerning his voyage; for there he welcomed him in his own halls.</p>

<p id="id00094">Next came Zetes and Calais, sons of Boreas, whom once Oreithyia,
daughter of Erechtheus, bare to Boreas on the verge of wintry Thrace;
thither it was that Thracian Boreas snatched her away from Cecropia as
she was whirling in the dance, hard by Ilissus' stream. And, carrying
her far off, to the spot that men called the rock of Sarpedon, near the
river Erginus, he wrapped her in dark clouds and forced her to his will.
There they were making their dusky wings quiver upon their ankles on
both sides as they rose, a great wonder to behold, wings that gleamed
with golden scales: and round their backs from the top of the head and
neck, hither and thither, their dark tresses were being shaken by the
wind.</p>

<p id="id00095">No, nor had Acastus son of mighty Pelias himself any will to stay behind
in the palace of his brave sire, nor Argus, helper of the goddess
Athena; but they too were ready to be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00096">So many then were the helpers who assembled to join the son of Aeson.
All the chiefs the dwellers thereabout called Minyae, for the most and
the bravest avowed that they were sprung from the blood of the daughters
of Minyas; thus Jason himself was the son of Alcimede who was born of
Clymene the daughter of Minyas.</p>

<p id="id00097">Now when all things had been made ready by the thralls, all things that
fully-equipped ships are furnished withal when men's business leads them
to voyage across the sea, then the heroes took their way through the
city to the ship where it lay on the strand that men call Magnesian
Pagasae; and a crowd of people hastening rushed together; but the heroes
shone like gleaming stars among the clouds; and each man as he saw them
speeding along with their armour would say:</p>

<p id="id00098">"King Zeus, what is the purpose of Pelias? Whither is he driving forth
from the Panachaean land so great a host of heroes? On one day they
would waste the palace of Aeetes with baleful fire, should he not yield
them the fleece of his own goodwill. But the path is not to be shunned,
the toil is hard for those who venture."</p>

<p id="id00099">Thus they spake here and there throughout the city; but the women often
raised their hands to the sky in prayer to the immortals to grant a
return, their hearts' desire. And one with tears thus lamented to her
fellow:</p>

<p id="id00100">"Wretched Alcimede, evil has come to thee at last though late, thou hast
not ended with splendour of life. Aeson too, ill-fated man! Surely
better had it been for him, if he were lying beneath the earth enveloped
in his shroud, still unconscious of bitter toils. Would that the dark
wave, when the maiden Helle perished, had overwhelmed Phrixus too with
the ram: but the dire portent even sent forth a human voice, that it
might cause to Alcimede sorrows and countless pains hereafter."</p>

<p id="id00101">Thus the women spake at the departure of the heroes. And now many
thralls, men and women, were gathered together, and his mother, smitten
with grief for Jason. And a bitter pang seized every woman's heart; and
with them groaned the father in baleful old age, lying on his bed,
closely wrapped round. But the hero straightway soothed their pain,
encouraging them, and bade the thralls take up his weapons for war; and
they in silence with downcast looks took them up. And even as the mother
had thrown her arms about her son, so she clung, weeping without stint,
as a maiden all alone weeps, falling fondly on the neck of her hoary
nurse, a maid who has now no others to care for her, but she drags on a
weary life under a stepmother, who maltreats her continually with ever
fresh insults, and as she weeps, her heart within her is bound fast with
misery, nor can she sob forth all the groans that struggle for
utterance; so without stint wept Alcimede straining her son in her arms,
and in her yearning grief spake as follows:</p>

<p id="id00102">"Would that on that day when, wretched woman that I am, I heard King
Pelias proclaim his evil behest, I had straightway given up my life and
forgotten my cares, so that thou thyself, my son, with thine own hands,
mightest have buried me; for that was the only wish left me still to be
fulfilled by thee, all the other rewards for thy nurture have I long
enjoyed. Now I, once so admired among Achaean women, shall be left
behind like a bondwoman in my empty halls, pining away, ill-fated one,
for love of thee, thee on whose account I had aforetime so much splendour
and renown, my only son for whom I loosed my virgin zone first and last.
For to me beyond others the goddess Eileithyia grudged abundant
offspring. Alas for my folly! Not once, not even in my dreams did I
forebode this, that the flight of Phrixus would bring me woe."</p>

<p id="id00103">Thus with moaning she wept, and her handmaidens, standing by, lamented;
but Jason spake gently to her with comforting words:</p>

<p id="id00104">"Do not, I pray thee, mother, store up bitter sorrows overmuch, for thou
wilt not redeem me from evil by tears, but wilt still add grief to
grief. For unseen are the woes that the gods mete out to mortals; be
strong to endure thy share of them though with grief in thy heart; take
courage from the promises of Athena, and from the answers of the gods
(for very favourable oracles has Phoebus given), and then from the help
of the chieftains. But do thou remain here, quiet among thy handmaids,
and be not a bird of ill omen to the ship; and thither my clansmen and
thralls will follow me."</p>

<p id="id00105">He spake, and started forth to leave the house. And as Apollo goes forth
from some fragrant shrine to divine Delos or Claros or Pytho or to broad
Lycia near the stream of Xanthus, in such beauty moved Jason through the
throng of people; and a cry arose as they shouted together. And there
met him aged Iphias, priestess of Artemis guardian of the city, and
kissed his right hand, but she had not strength to say a word, for all
her eagerness, as the crowd rushed on, but she was left there by the
wayside, as the old are left by the young, and he passed on and was gone
afar.</p>

<p id="id00106">Now when he had left the well-built streets of the city he came to the
beach of Pagasae, where his comrades greeted him as they stayed together
near the ship Argo. And he stood at the entering in, and they were
gathered to meet him. And they perceived Acastus and Argus coming from
the city, and they marvelled when they saw them hasting with all speed,
despite the will of Pelias. The one, Argus, son of Arestor, had cast
round his shoulders the hide of a bull reaching to his feet, with the
black hair upon it, the other, a fair mantle of double fold, which his
sister Pelopeia had given him. Still Jason forebore from asking them
about each point but bade all be seated for an assembly. And there, upon
the folded sails and the mast as it lay on the ground, they all took
their seats in order. And among them with goodwill spake Aeson's son:</p>

<p id="id00107">"All the equipment that a ship needs—for all is in due order—lies
ready for our departure. Therefore we will make no long delay in our
sailing for these things' sake, when the breezes but blow fair. But,
friends,—for common to all is our return to Hellas hereafter, and
common to all is our path to the land of Aeetes—now therefore with
ungrudging heart choose the bravest to be our leader, who shall be
careful for everything, to take upon him our quarrels and covenants with
strangers."</p>

<p id="id00108">Thus he spake; and the young heroes turned their eves towards bold
Heracles sitting in their midst, and with one shout they all enjoined
upon him to be their leader; but he, from the place where he sat,
stretched forth his right hand and said:</p>

<p id="id00109">"Let no one offer this honour to me. For I will not consent, and I will
forbid any other to stand up. Let the hero who brought us together,
himself be the leader of the host."</p>

<p id="id00110">Thus he spake with high thoughts, and they assented, as Heracles bade;
and warlike Jason himself rose up, glad at heart, and thus addressed the
eager throng:</p>

<p id="id00111">"If ye entrust your glory to my care, no longer as before let our path
be hindered. Now at last let us propitiate Phoebus with sacrifice and
straightway prepare a feast. And until my thralls come, the overseers of
my steading, whose care it is to choose out oxen from the herd and drive
them hither, we will drag down the ship to the sea, and do ye place all
the tackling within, and draw lots for the benches for rowing. Meantime
let us build upon the beach an altar to Apollo Embasius[1] who by an
oracle promised to point out and show me the paths of the sea, if by
sacrifice to him I should begin my venture for King Pelias."</p>

<p id="id00112">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of embarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00113">He spake, and was the first to turn to the work, and they stood up in
obedience to him; and they heaped their garments, one upon the other, on
a smooth stone, which the sea did not strike with its waves, but the
stormy surge had cleansed it long before. First of all, by the command
of Argus, they strongly girded the ship with a rope well twisted
within,[1] stretching it tight on each side, in order that the planks
might be well compacted by the bolts and might withstand the opposing
force of the surge. And they quickly dug a trench as wide as the space
the ship covered, and at the prow as far into the sea as it would run
when drawn down by their hands. And they ever dug deeper in front of the
stem, and in the furrow laid polished rollers; and inclined the ship
down upon the first rollers, that so she might glide and be borne on by
them. And above, on both sides, reversing the oars, they fastened them
round the thole-pins, so as to project a cubit's space. And the heroes
themselves stood on both sides at the oars in a row, and pushed forward
with chest and hand at once. And then Tiphys leapt on board to urge the
youths to push at the right moment; and calling on them he shouted
loudly; and they at once, leaning with all their strength, with one push
started the ship from her place, and strained with their feet, forcing
her onward; and Pelian Argo followed swiftly; and they on each side
shouted as they rushed on. And then the rollers groaned under the sturdy
keel as they were chafed, and round them rose up a dark smoke owing to
the weight, and she glided into the sea; but the heroes stood there and
kept dragging her back as she sped onward. And round the thole-pins they
fitted the oars, and in the ship they placed the mast and the well-made
sails and the stores.</p>

<p id="id00114">[Footnote 1: Or, reading [Greek: ektothen], "they strongly girded the
ship outside with a well-twisted rope." In either case there is probably
no allusion to [Greek: hupozômata] (ropes for undergirding) which-were
carried loose and only used in stormy weather.]</p>

<p id="id00115">Now when they had carefully paid heed to everything, first they
distributed the benches by lot, two men occupying one seat; but the
middle bench they chose for Heracles and Ancaeus apart from the other
heroes, Ancaeus who dwelt in Tegea. For them alone they left the middle
bench just as it was and not by lot; and with one consent they entrusted
Tiphys with guarding the helm of the well-stemmed ship.</p>

<p id="id00116">Next, piling up shingle near the sea, they raised there an altar on the
shore to Apollo, under the name of Actius[1] and Embasius, and quickly
spread above it logs of dried olive-wood. Meantime the herdsmen of
Aeson's son had driven before them from the herd two steers. These the
younger comrades dragged near the altars, and the others brought lustral
water and barley meal, and Jason prayed, calling on Apollo the god of
his fathers:</p>

<p id="id00117">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of the shore.]</p>

<p id="id00118">"Hear, O King, that dwellest in Pagasae and the city Aesonis, the city
called by my father's name, thou who didst promise me, when I sought thy
oracle at Pytho, to show the fulfilment and goal of my journey, for thou
thyself hast been the cause of my venture; now do thou thyself guide the
ship with my comrades safe and sound, thither and back again to Hellas.
Then in thy honour hereafter we will lay again on thy altar the bright
offerings of bulls—all of us who return; and other gifts in countless
numbers I will bring to Pytho and Ortygia. And now, come, Far-darter,
accept this sacrifice at our hands, which first of all we have offered
thee for this ship on our embarcation; and grant, O King, that with a
prosperous weird I may loose the hawsers, relying on thy counsel, and
may the breeze blow softly with which we shall sail over the sea in fair
weather."</p>

<p id="id00119">He spake, and with his prayer cast the barley meal. And they two girded
themselves to slay the steers, proud Ancaeus and Heracles. The latter
with his club smote one steer mid-head on the brow, and falling in a
heap on the spot, it sank to the ground; and Ancaeus struck the broad
neck of the other with his axe of bronze, and shore through the mighty
sinews; and it fell prone on both its horns. Their comrades quickly
severed the victims' throats, and flayed the hides: they sundered the
joints and carved the flesh, then cut out the sacred thigh bones, and
covering them all together closely with fat burnt them upon cloven wood.
And Aeson's son poured out pure libations, and Idmon rejoiced beholding
the flame as it gleamed on every side from the sacrifice, and the smoke
of it mounting up with good omen in dark spiral columns; and quickly he
spake outright the will of Leto's son:</p>

<p id="id00120">"For you it is the will of heaven and destiny that ye shall return here
with the fleece; but meanwhile both going and returning, countless
trials await you. But it is my lot, by the hateful decree of a god, to
die somewhere afar off on the mainland of Asia. Thus, though I learnt my
fate from evil omens even before now, I have left my fatherland to
embark on the ship, that so after my embarking fair fame may be left me
in my house."</p>

<p id="id00121">Thus he spake; and the youths hearing the divine utterance rejoiced at
their return, but grief seized them for the fate of Idmon. Now at the
hour when the sun passes his noon-tide halt and the ploughlands are just
being shadowed by the rocks, as the sun slopes towards the evening dusk,
at that hour all the heroes spread leaves thickly upon the sand and lay
down in rows in front of the hoary surf-line; and near them were spread
vast stores of viands and sweet wine, which the cupbearers had drawn off
in pitchers; afterwards they told tales one to another in turn, such as
youths often tell when at the feast and the bowl they take delightful
pastime, and insatiable insolence is far away. But here the son of
Aeson, all helpless, was brooding over each event in his mind, like one
oppressed with thought. And Idas noted him and assailed him with loud
voice:</p>

<p id="id00122">"Son of Aeson, what is this plan thou art turning over in mind. Speak
out thy thought in the midst. Does fear come on and master thee, fear,
that confounds cowards? Be witness now my impetuous spear, wherewith in
wars I win renown beyond all others (nor does Zeus aid me so much as my
own spear), that no woe will be fatal, no venture will be unachieved,
while Idas follows, even though a god should oppose thee. Such a
helpmeet am I that thou bringest from Arene."</p>

<p id="id00123">He spake, and holding a brimming goblet in both hands drank off the
unmixed sweet wine; and his lips and dark cheeks were drenched with it;
and all the heroes clamoured together and Idmon spoke out openly:</p>

<p id="id00124">"Vain wretch, thou art devising destruction for thyself before the time.
Does the pure wine cause thy bold heart to swell in thy breast to thy
ruin, and has it set thee on to dishonour the gods? Other words of
comfort there are with which a man might encourage his comrade; but thou
hast spoken with utter recklessness. Such taunts, the tale goes, did the
sons of Aloeus once blurt out against the blessed gods, and thou dost no
wise equal them in valour; nevertheless they were both slain by the
swift arrows of Leto's son, mighty though they were."</p>

<p id="id00125">Thus he spake, and Aphareian Idas laughed out, loud and long, and eyeing
him askance replied with biting words:</p>

<p id="id00126">"Come now, tell me this by thy prophetic art, whether for me too the
gods will bring to pass such doom as thy father promised for the sons of
Aloeus. And bethink thee how thou wilt escape from my hands alive, if
thou art caught making a prophecy vain as the idle wind."</p>

<p id="id00127">Thus in wrath Idas reviled him, and the strife would have gone further
had not their comrades and Aeson's son himself with indignant cry
restrained the contending chiefs; and Orpheus lifted his lyre in his
left hand and made essay to sing.</p>

<p id="id00128">He sang how the earth, the heaven and the sea, once mingled together in
one form, after deadly strife were separated each from other; and how
the stars and the moon and the paths of the sun ever keep their fixed
place in the sky; and how the mountains rose, and how the resounding
rivers with their nymphs came into being and all creeping things. And he
sang how first of all Ophion and Eurynome, daughter of Ocean, held the
sway of snowy Olympus, and how through strength of arm one yielded his
prerogative to Cronos and the other to Rhea, and how they fell into the
waves of Ocean; but the other two meanwhile ruled over the blessed
Titan-gods, while Zeus, still a child and with the thoughts of a child,
dwelt in the Dictaean cave; and the earthborn Cyclopes had not yet armed
him with the bolt, with thunder and lightning; for these things give
renown to Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00129">He ended, and stayed his lyre and divine voice. But though he had ceased
they still bent forward with eagerness all hushed to quiet, with ears
intent on the enchanting strain; such a charm of song had he left behind
in their hearts. Not long after they mixed libations in honour of Zeus,
with pious rites as is customary, and poured them upon the burning
tongues, and bethought them of sleep in the darkness.</p>

<p id="id00130">Now when gleaming dawn with bright eyes beheld the lofty peaks of
Pelion, and the calm headlands were being drenched as the sea was
ruffled by the winds, then Tiphys awoke from sleep; and at once he
roused his comrades to go on board and make ready the oars. And a
strange cry did the harbour of Pagasae utter, yea and Pelian Argo
herself, urging them to set forth. For in her a beam divine had been
laid which Athena had brought from an oak of Dodona and fitted in the
middle of the stem. And the heroes went to the benches one after the
other, as they had previously assigned for each to row in his place, and
took their seats in due order near their fighting gear. In the middle
sat Ancaeus and mighty Heracles, and near him he laid his club, and
beneath his tread the ship's keel sank deep. And now the hawsers were
being slipped and they poured wine on the sea. But Jason with tears held
his eyes away from his fatherland. And just as youths set up a dance in
honour of Phoebus either in Pytho or haply in Ortygia, or by the waters
of Ismenus, and to the sound of the lyre round his altar all together in
time beat the earth with swiftly-moving feet; so they to the sound of
Orpheus' lyre smote with their oars the rushing sea-water, and the surge
broke over the blades; and on this side and on that the dark brine
seethed with foam, boiling terribly through the might of the sturdy
heroes. And their arms shone in the sun like flame as the ship sped on;
and ever their wake gleamed white far behind, like a path seen over a
green plain. On that day all the gods looked down from heaven upon the
ship and the might of the heroes, half-divine, the bravest of men then
sailing the sea; and on the topmost heights the nymphs of Pelion
wondered as they beheld the work of Itonian Athena, and the heroes
themselves wielding the oars. And there came down from the mountain-top
to the sea Chiron, son of Philyra, and where the white surf broke he
dipped his feet, and, often waving with his broad hand, cried out to
them at their departure, "Good speed and a sorrowless home-return!" And
with him his wife, bearing Peleus' son Achilles on her arm, showed the
child to his dear father.</p>

<p id="id00131">Now when they had left the curving shore of the harbour through the
cunning and counsel of prudent Tiphys son of Hagnias, who skilfully
handled the well-polished helm that he might guide them steadfastly,
then at length they set up the tall mast in the mast-box, and secured it
with forestays, drawing them taut on each side, and from it they let
down the sail when they had hauled it to the top-mast. And a breeze came
down piping shrilly; and upon the deck they fastened the ropes
separately round the well-polished pins, and ran quietly past the long
Tisaean headland. And for them the son of Oeagrus touched his lyre and
sang in rhythmical song of Artemis, saviour of ships, child of a
glorious sire, who hath in her keeping those peaks by the sea, and the
land of Iolcos; and the fishes came darting through the deep sea, great
mixed with small, and followed gambolling along the watery paths. And as
when in the track of the shepherd, their master, countless sheep follow
to the fold that have fed to the full of grass, and he goes before gaily
piping a shepherd's strain on his shrill reed; so these fishes followed;
and a chasing breeze ever bore the ship onward.</p>

<p id="id00132">And straightway the misty land of the Pelasgians, rich in cornfields,
sank out of sight, and ever speeding onward they passed the rugged sides
of Pelion; and the Sepian headland sank away, and Sciathus appeared in
the sea, and far off appeared Piresiae and the calm shore of Magnesia on
the mainland and the tomb of Dolops; here then in the evening, as the
wind blew against them, they put to land, and paying honour to him at
nightfall burnt sheep as victims, while the sea was tossed by the swell:
and for two days they lingered on the shore, but on the third day they
put forth the ship, spreading on high the broad sail. And even now men
call that beach Aphetae[1] of Argo.</p>

<p id="id00133">[Footnote 1: i.e. The Starting.]</p>

<p id="id00134">Thence going forward they ran past Meliboea, escaping a stormy beach and
surf-line. And in the morning they saw Homole close at hand leaning on
the sea, and skirted it, and not long after they were about to pass by
the outfall of the river Amyrus. From there they beheld Eurymenae and
the sea-washed ravines of Ossa and Olympus; next they reached the slopes
of Pallene, beyond the headland of Canastra, running all night with the
wind. And at dawn before them as they journeyed rose Athos, the Thracian
mountain, which with its topmost peak overshadows Lemnos, even as far as
Myrine, though it lies as far off as the space that a well-trimmed
merchantship would traverse up to mid-day. For them on that day, till
darkness fell, the breeze blew exceedingly fresh, and the sails of the
ship strained to it. But with the setting of the sun the wind left them,
and it was by the oars that they reached Lemnos, the Sintian isle.</p>

<p id="id00135">Here the whole of the men of the people together had been ruthlessly
slain through the transgressions of the women in the year gone by. For
the men had rejected their lawful wives, loathing them, and had
conceived a fierce passion for captive maids whom they themselves
brought across the sea from their forays in Thrace; for the terrible
wrath of Cypris came upon them, because for a long time they had grudged
her the honours due. O hapless women, and insatiate in jealousy to their
own ruin! Not their husbands alone with the captives did they slay on
account of the marriage-bed, but all the males at the same time, that
they might thereafter pay no retribution for the grim murder. And of all
the women, Hypsipyle alone spared her aged father Thoas, who was king
over the people; and she sent him in a hollow chest to drift over the
sea, if haply he should escape. And fishermen dragged him to shore at
the island of Oenoe, formerly Oenoe, but afterwards called Sicinus from
Sicinus, whom the water-nymph Oenoe bore to Thoas. Now for all the women
to tend kine, to don armour of bronze, and to cleave with the
plough-share the wheat-bearing fields, was easier than the works of
Athena, with which they were busied aforetime. Yet for all that did they
often gaze over the broad sea, in grievous fear against the Thracians'
coming. So when they saw Argo being rowed near the island, straightway
crowding in multitude from the gates of Myrine and clad in their harness
of war, they poured forth to the beach like ravening Thyiades; for they
deemed that the Thracians were come; and with them Hypsipyle, daughter
of Thoas, donned her father's harness. And they streamed down speechless
with dismay; such fear was wafted about them.</p>

<p id="id00136">Meantime from the ship the chiefs had sent Aethalides the swift herald,
to whose care they entrusted their messages and the wand of Hermes, his
sire, who had granted him a memory of all things, that never grew dim;
and not even now, though he has entered the unspeakable whirlpools of
Acheron, has forgetfulness swept over his soul, but its fixed doom is to
be ever changing its abode; at one time to be numbered among the
dwellers beneath the earth, at another to be in the light of the sun
among living men. But why need I tell at length tales of Aethalides? He
at that time persuaded Hypsipyle to receive the new-comers as the day
was waning into darkness; nor yet at dawn did they loose the ship's
hawsers to the breath of the north wind.</p>

<p id="id00137">Now the Lemnian women fared through the city and sat down to the
assembly, for Hypsipyle herself had so bidden. And when they were all
gathered together in one great throng straightway she spake among them
with stirring words:</p>

<p id="id00138">"O friends, come let us grant these men gifts to their hearts' desire,
such as it is fitting that they should take on ship-board, food and
sweet wine, in order that they may steadfastly remain outside our
towers, and may not, passing among us for need's sake, get to know us
all too well, and so an evil report be widely spread; for we have
wrought a terrible deed and in nowise will it be to their liking, should
they learn it. Such is our counsel now, but if any of you can devise a
better plan let her rise, for it was on this account that I summoned you
hither."</p>

<p id="id00139">Thus she spake and sat upon her father's seat of stone, and then rose up
her dear nurse Polyxo, for very age halting upon her withered feet,
bowed over a staff, and she was eager to address them. Near her were
seated four virgins, unwedded, crowned with white hair. And she stood in
the midst of the assembly and from her bent back she feebly raised her
neck and spake thus:</p>

<p id="id00140">"Gifts, as Hypsipyle herself wishes, let us send to the strangers, for
it is better to give them. But for you what device have ye to get profit
of your life if the Thracian host fall upon us, or some other foe, as
often happens among men, even as now this company is come unforeseen?
But if one of the blessed gods should turn this aside yet countless
other woes worse than battle, remain behind, when the aged women die off
and ye younger ones, without children, reach hateful old age. How then
will ye live, hapless ones? Will your oxen of their own accord yoke
themselves for the deep ploughlands and draw the earth-cleaving share
through the fallow, and forthwith, as the year comes round, reap the
harvest? Assuredly, though the fates till now have shunned me in horror,
I deem that in the coming year I shall put on the garment of earth, when
I have received my meed of burial even so as is right, before the evil
days draw near. But I bid you who are younger give good heed to this.
For now at your feet a way of escape lies open, if ye trust to the
strangers the care of your homes and all your stock and your glorious
city."</p>

<p id="id00141">Thus she spake, and the assembly was filled with clamour. For the word
pleased them. And after her straightway Hypsipyle rose up again, and
thus spake in reply.</p>

<p id="id00142">"If this purpose please you all, now will I even send a messenger to the
ship."</p>

<p id="id00143">She spake and addressed Iphinoe close at hand: "Go, Iphinoe, and beg
yonder man, whoever it is that leads this array, to come to our land
that I may tell him a word that pleases the heart of my people, and bid
the men themselves, if they wish, boldly enter the land and the city
with friendly intent."</p>

<p id="id00144">She spake, and dismissed the assembly, and thereafter started to return
home. And so Iphinoe came to the Minyae; and they asked with what intent
she had come among them. And quickly she addressed her questioners with
all speed in these words:</p>

<p id="id00145">"The maiden Hypsipyle daughter of Thoas, sent me on my way here to you,
to summon the captain of your ship, whoever he be, that she may tell him
a word that pleases the heart of the people, and she bids yourselves, if
ye wish it, straightway enter the land and the city with friendly
intent."</p>

<p id="id00146">Thus she spake and the speech of good omen pleased all. And they deemed
that Thoas was dead and that his beloved daughter Hypsipyle was queen,
and quickly they sent Jason on his way and themselves made ready to go.</p>

<p id="id00147">Now he had buckled round his shoulders a purple mantle of double fold,
the work of the Tritonian goddess, which Pallas had given him when she
first laid the keel-props of the ship Argo and taught him how to measure
timbers with the rule. More easily wouldst thou cast thy eyes upon the
sun at its rising than behold that blazing splendour. For indeed in the
middle the fashion thereof was red, but at the ends it was all purple,
and on each margin many separate devices had been skilfully inwoven.</p>

<p id="id00148">In it were the Cyclops seated at their imperishable work, forging a
thunderbolt for King Zeus; by now it was almost finished in its
brightness and still it wanted but one ray, which they were beating out
with their iron hammers as it spurted forth a breath of raging flame.</p>

<p id="id00149">In it too were the twin sons of Antiope, daughter of Asopus, Amphion and
Zethus, and Thebe still ungirt with towers was lying near, whose
foundations they were just then laying in eager haste. Zethus on his
shoulders was lifting the peak of a steep mountain, like a man toiling
hard, and Amphion after him, singing loud and clear on his golden lyre,
moved on, and a rock twice as large followed his footsteps.</p>

<p id="id00150">Next in order had been wrought Cytherea with drooping tresses, wielding
the swift shield of Ares; and from her shoulder to her left arm the
fastening of her tunic was loosed beneath her breast; and opposite in
the shield of bronze her image appeared clear to view as she stood.</p>

<p id="id00151">And in it there was a well-wooded pasturage of oxen; and about the oxen
the Teleboae and the sons of Electryon were fighting; the one party
defending themselves, the others, the Taphian raiders, longing to rob
them; and the dewy meadow was drenched with their blood, and the many
were overmastering the few herdsmen.</p>

<p id="id00152">And therein were fashioned two chariots, racing, and the one in front
Pelops was guiding, as he shook the reins, and with him was Hippodameia
at his side, and in pursuit Myrtilus urged his steeds, and with him
Oenomaus had grasped his couched spear, but fell as the axle swerved and
broke in the nave, while he was eager to pierce the back of Pelops.</p>

<p id="id00153">And in it was wrought Phoebus Apollo, a stripling not yet grown up, in
the act of shooting at mighty Tityos who was boldly dragging his mother
by her veil, Tityos whom glorious Elare bare, but Earth nursed him and
gave him second birth.</p>

<p id="id00154">And in it was Phrixus the Minyan as though he were in very deed
listening to the ram, while it was like one speaking. Beholding them
thou wouldst be silent and wouldst cheat thy soul with the hope of
hearing some wise speech from them, and long wouldst thou gaze with that
hope.</p>

<p id="id00155">Such then were the gifts of the Tritonian goddess Athena. And in his
right hand Jason held a far-darting spear, which Atalanta gave him once
as a gift of hospitality in Maenalus as she met him gladly; for she
eagerly desired to follow on that quest; but he himself of his own
accord prevented the maid, for he feared bitter strife on account of her
love.</p>

<p id="id00156">And he went on his way to the city like to a bright star, which maidens,
pent up in new-built chambers, behold as it rises above their homes, and
through the dark air it charms their eyes with its fair red gleam and
the maid rejoices, love-sick for the youth who is far away amid
strangers, for whom her parents are keeping her to be his bride; like to
that star the hero trod the way to the city. And when they had passed
within the gates and the city, the women of the people surged behind
them, delighting in the stranger, but he with his eyes fixed on the
ground fared straight on, till he reached the glorious palace of
Hypsipyle; and when he appeared the maids opened the folding doors,
fitted with well-fashioned panels. Here Iphinoe leading him quickly
through a fair porch set him upon a shining seat opposite her mistress,
but Hypsipyle turned her eyes aside and a blush covered her maiden
cheeks, yet for all her modesty she addressed him with crafty words:</p>

<p id="id00157">"Stranger, why stay ye so long outside our towers? for the city is not
inhabited by the men, but they, as sojourners, plough the wheat-bearing
fields of the Thracian mainland. And I will tell out truly all our evil
plight, that ye yourselves too may know it well. When my father Thoas
reigned over the citizens, then our folk starting from their homes used
to plunder from their ships the dwellings of the Thracians who live
opposite, and they brought back hither measureless booty and maidens
too. But the counsel of the baneful goddess Cypris was working out its
accomplishment, who brought upon them soul destroying infatuation. For
they hated their lawful wives, and, yielding to their own mad folly,
drove them from their homes; and they took to their beds the captives of
their spear, cruel ones. Long in truth we endured it, if haply again,
though late, they might change their purpose, but ever the bitter woe
grew, twofold. And the lawful children were being dishonoured in their
halls, and a bastard race was rising. And thus unmarried maidens and
widowed mothers too wandered uncared for through the city; no father
heeded his daughter ever so little even though he should see her done to
death before his eyes at the hands of an insolent step-dame, nor did
sons, as before, defend their mother against unseemly outrage; nor did
brothers care at heart for their sister. But in their homes, in the
dance, in the assembly and the banquet all their thought was only for
their captive maidens; until some god put desperate courage in our
hearts no more to receive our lords on their return from Thrace within
our towers so that they might either heed the right or might depart and
begone elsewhither, they and their captives. So they begged of us all
the male children that were left in the city and went back to where even
now they dwell on the snowy tilths of Thrace. Do ye therefore stay and
settle with us; and shouldst them desire to dwell here, and this finds
favour with thee, assuredly thou shalt have the prerogative of my father
Thoas; and I deem that thou wilt not scorn our land at all; for it is
deep-soiled beyond all other islands that lie in the Aegaean sea. But
come now, return to the ship and relate my words to thy comrades, and
stay not outside our city."</p>

<p id="id00158">She spoke, glozing over the murder that had been wrought upon the men;
and Jason addressed her in answer:</p>

<p id="id00159">"Hypsipyle, very dear to our hearts is the help we shall meet with,
which thou grantest to us who need thee. And I will return again to the
city when I have told everything in order due. But let the sovereignty
of the island be thine; it is not in scorn I yield it up, but grievous
trials urge me on."</p>

<p id="id00160">He spake, and touched her right hand; and quickly he turned to go back:
and round him the young maids on every side danced in countless numbers
in their joy till he passed through the gates. And then they came to the
shore in smooth-running wains, bearing with them many gifts, when now he
had related from beginning to end the speech which Hypsipyle had spoken
when she summoned them; and the maids readily led the men back to their
homes for entertainment. For Cypris stirred in them a sweet desire, for
the sake of Hephaestus of many counsels, in order that Lemnos might be
again inhabited by men and not be ruined.</p>

<p id="id00161">Thereupon Aeson's son started to go to the royal home of Hypsipyle; and
the rest went each his way as chance took them, all but Heracles; for he
of his own will was left behind by the ship and a few chosen comrades
with him. And straightway the city rejoiced with dances and banquets,
being filled with the steam of sacrifice; and above all the immortals
they propitiated with songs and sacrifices the illustrious son of Hera
and Cypris herself. And the sailing was ever delayed from one day to
another; and long would they have lingered there, had not Heracles,
gathering together his comrades apart from the women, thus addressed
them with reproachful words:</p>

<p id="id00162">"Wretched men, does the murder of kindred keep us from our native land?
Or is it in want of marriage that we have come hither from thence, in
scorn of our countrywomen? Does it please us to dwell here and plough
the rich soil of Lemnos? No fair renown shall we win by thus tarrying so
long with stranger women; nor will some god seize and give us at our
prayer a fleece that moves of itself. Let us then return each to his
own; but him leave ye to rest all day long in the embrace of Hypsipyle
until he has peopled Lemnos with men-children, and so there come to him
great glory."</p>

<p id="id00163">Thus did he chide the band; but no one dared to meet his eye or to utter
a word in answer. But just as they were in the assembly they made ready
their departure in all haste, and the women came running towards them,
when they knew their intent. And as when bees hum round fair lilies
pouring forth from their hive in the rock, and all around the dewy
meadow rejoices, and they gather the sweet fruit, flitting from one to
another; even so the women eagerly poured forth, clustering round the
men with loud lament, and greeted each one with hands and voice, praying
the blessed gods to grant him a safe return. And so Hypsipyle too
prayed, seizing the hands of Aeson's son, and her tears flowed for the
loss of her lover:</p>

<p id="id00164">"Go, and may heaven bring thee back again with thy comrades unharmed,
bearing to the king the golden fleece, even as thou wilt and thy heart
desireth; and this island and my father's sceptre will be awaiting thee,
if on thy return hereafter thou shouldst choose to come hither again;
and easily couldst thou gather a countless host of men from other
cities. But thou wilt not have this desire, nor do I myself forbode that
so it will be. Still remember Hypsipyle when thou art far away and when
thou hast returned; and leave me some word of bidding, which I will
gladly accomplish, if haply heaven shall grant me to be a mother."</p>

<p id="id00165">And Aeson's son in admiration thus replied: "Hypsipyle, so may all these
things prove propitious by the favour of the blessed gods. But do thou
hold a nobler thought of me, since by the grace of Pelias it is enough
for me to dwell in my native land; may the gods only release me from my
toils. But if it is not my destiny to sail afar and return to the land
of Hellas, and if thou shouldst bear a male child, send him when grown
up to Pelasgian Iolcus, to heal the grief of my father and mother if so
be that he find them still living, in order that, far away from the
king, they may be cared for by their own hearth in their home."</p>

<p id="id00166">He spake, and mounted the ship first of all; and so the rest of the
chiefs followed, and, sitting in order, seized the oars; and Argus
loosed for them the hawsers from under the sea-beaten rock. Whereupon
they mightily smote the water with their long oars, and in the evening
by the injunctions of Orpheus they touched at the island of Electra,[1]
daughter of Atlas, in order that by gentle initiation they might learn
the rites that may not be uttered, and so with greater safety sail over
the chilling sea. Of these I will make no further mention; but I bid
farewell to the island itself and the indwelling deities, to whom belong
those mysteries, which it is not lawful for me to sing.</p>

<p id="id00167">[Footnote 1: Samothrace.]</p>

<p id="id00168">Thence did they row with eagerness over the depths of the black Sea,
having on the one side the land of the Thracians, on the other Imbros on
the south; and as the sun was just setting they reached the foreland of
the Chersonesus. There a strong south wind blew for them; and raising
the sails to the breeze they entered the swift stream of the maiden
daughter of Athamas; and at dawn the sea to the north was left behind
and at night they were coasting inside the Rhoeteian shore, with the
land of Ida on their right. And leaving Dardania they directed their
course to Abydus, and after it they sailed past Percote and the sandy
beach of Abarnis and divine Pityeia. And in that night, as the ship sped
on by sail and oar, they passed right through the Hellespont
dark-gleaming with eddies.</p>

<p id="id00169">There is a lofty island inside the Propontis, a short distance from the
Phrygian mainland with its rich cornfields, sloping to the sea, where an
isthmus in front of the mainland is flooded by the waves, so low does it
lie. And the isthmus has double shores, and they lie beyond the river
Aesepus, and the inhabitants round about call the island the Mount of
Bears. And insolent and fierce men dwell there, Earthborn, a great
marvel to the neighbours to behold; for each one has six mighty hands to
lift up, two from his sturdy shoulders, and four below, fitting close to
his terrible sides. And about the isthmus and the plain the Doliones had
their dwelling, and over them Cyzicus son of Aeneus was king, whom
Aenete the daughter of goodly Eusorus bare. But these men the Earthborn
monsters, fearful though they were, in nowise harried, owing to the
protection of Poseidon; for from him had the Doliones first sprung.
Thither Argo pressed on, driven by the winds of Thrace, and the Fair
haven received her as she sped. There they cast away their small
anchorstone by the advice of Tiphys and left it beneath a fountain, the
fountain of Artacie; and they took another meet for their purpose, a
heavy one; but the first, according to the oracle of the Far-Darter, the
Ionians, sons of Neleus, in after days laid to be a sacred stone, as was
right, in the temple of Jasonian Athena.</p>

<p id="id00170">Now the Doliones and Cyzicus himself all came together to meet them with
friendliness, and when they knew of the quest and their lineage welcomed
them with hospitality, and persuaded them to row further and to fasten
their ship's hawsers at the city harbour. Here they built an altar to
Ecbasian[1] Apollo and set it up on the beach, and gave heed to
sacrifices. And the king of his own bounty gave them sweet wine and
sheep in their need; for he had heard a report that whenever a godlike
band of heroes should come, straightway he should meet it with gentle
words and should have no thought of war. As with Jason, the soft down
was just blooming on his chin, nor yet had it been his lot to rejoice in
children, but still in his palace his wife was untouched by the pangs of
child-birth, the daughter of Percosian Merops, fair-haired Cleite, whom
lately by priceless gifts he had brought from her father's home from the
mainland opposite. But even so he left his chamber and bridal bed and
prepared a banquet among the strangers, casting all fears from his
heart. And they questioned one another in turn. Of them would he learn
the end of their voyage and the injunctions of Pelias; while they
enquired about the cities of the people round and all the gulf of the
wide Propontis; but further he could not tell them for all their desire
to learn. In the morning they climbed mighty Dindymum that they might
themselves behold the various paths of that sea; and they brought their
ship from its former anchorage to the harbour, Chytus; and the path they
trod is named the path of Jason.</p>

<p id="id00171">[Footnote 1: i.e. god of disembarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00172">But the Earthborn men on the other side rushed down from the mountain
and with crags below blocked up the mouth of vast Chytus towards the
sea, like men lying in wait for a wild beast within. But there Heracles
had been left behind with the younger heroes and he quickly bent his
back-springing bow against the monsters and brought them to earth one
after another; and they in their turn raised huge ragged rocks and
hurled them. For these dread monsters too, I ween, the goddess Hera,
bride of Zeus, had nurtured to be a trial for Heracles. And therewithal
came the rest of the martial heroes returning to meet the foe before
they reached the height of outlook, and they fell to the slaughter of
the Earthborn, receiving them with arrows and spears until they slew
them all as they rushed fiercely to battle. And as when woodcutters cast
in rows upon the beach long trees just hewn down by their axes, in order
that, once sodden with brine, they may receive the strong bolts; so
these monsters at the entrance of the foam-fringed harbour lay stretched
one after another, some in heaps bending their heads and breasts into
the salt waves with their limbs spread out above on the land; others
again were resting their heads on the sand of the shore and their feet
in the deep water, both alike a prey to birds and fishes at once.</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:47:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:18 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-24 19:47:19 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:20 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:47:21 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:21 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:47:22 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:22 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:47:25 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:26 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Argonautica, by Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00001">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 2em">Title: The Argonautica</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: November 8, 2004 [EBook #13977]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ARGONAUTICA ***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 4em">Produced by Ted Garvin, Aaron A. Reed and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net</p>

<h1 id="id00008" style="margin-top: 6em">                    APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h1>

<h5 id="id00009">                     THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 2em">              With An English Translation By</p>

<h5 id="id00011">                     R.C. SEATON, M.A.</h5>

<p id="id00012">        Formerly Fellow Of Jesus College, Cambridge</p>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 3em">                        <i> 1912 </i></p>

<h1 id="id00014" style="margin-top: 5em">CONTENTS</h1>

<h4 id="id00015" style="margin-top: 2em">INTRODUCTION
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BOOK I
BOOK II
BOOK III
BOOK IV
STEMMA MEDEAE
INDEX</h4>

<h2 id="id00016" style="margin-top: 4em">INTRODUCTION</h2>

<p id="id00017" style="margin-top: 2em">Much has been written about the chronology of Alexandrian literature and
the famous Library, founded by Ptolemy Soter, but the dates of the chief
writers are still matters of conjecture. The birth of Apollonius Rhodius
is placed by scholars at various times between 296 and 260 B.C., while
the year of his death is equally uncertain. In fact, we have very little
information on the subject. There are two "lives" of Apollonius in the
Scholia, both derived from an earlier one which is lost. From these we
learn that he was of Alexandria by birth,[1] that he lived in the time
of the Ptolemies, and was a pupil of Callimachus; that while still a
youth he composed and recited in public his <i>Argonautica</i>, and that the
poem was condemned, in consequence of which he retired to Rhodes; that
there he revised his poem, recited it with great applause, and hence
called himself a Rhodian. The second "life" adds: "Some say that he
returned to Alexandria and again recited his poem with the utmost
success, so that he was honoured with the libraries of the Museum[2] and
was buried with Callimachus." The last sentence may be interpreted by
the notice of Suidas, who informs us that Apollonius was a contemporary
of Eratosthenes, Euphorion and Timarchus, in the time of Ptolemy
Euergetes, and that he succeeded Eratosthenes in the headship of the
Alexandrian Library. Suidas also informs us elsewhere that Aristophanes
at the age of sixty-two succeeded Apollonius in this office. Many modern
scholars deny the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius for chronological
reasons, and there is considerable difficulty about it. The date of
Callimachus' <i>Hymn to Apollo,</i> which closes with some lines (105-113)
that are admittedly an allusion to Apollonius, may be put with much
probability at 248 or 247 B.C. Apollonius must at that date have been at
least twenty years old. Eratosthenes died 196-193 B.C. This would make
Apollonius seventy-two to seventy-five when he succeeded Eratosthenes.
This is not impossible, it is true, but it is difficult. But the
difficulty is taken away if we assume with Ritschl that Eratosthenes
resigned his office some years before his death, which allows us to put
the birth of Apollonius at about 280, and would solve other
difficulties. For instance, if the Librarians were buried within the
precincts, it would account for the burial of Apollonius next to
Callimachus—Eratosthenes being still alive. However that may be, it is
rather arbitrary to take away the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius,
which is clearly asserted by Suidas, on account of chronological
calculations which are themselves uncertain. Moreover, it is more
probable that the words following "some say" in the second "life" are a
remnant of the original life than a conjectural addition, because the
first "life" is evidently incomplete, nothing being said about the end
of Apollonius' career.</p>

<p id="id00018">[Footnote 1: "Or of Naucratis," according to Aelian and Athenaeus.]</p>

<p id="id00019">[Footnote 2: [Greek: hôs kai tôn bibliothêkôn tou mouseiou axiôthênai
auton.]]</p>

<p id="id00020">The principal event in his life, so far as we know, was the quarrel with
his master Callimachus, which was most probably the cause of his
condemnation at Alexandria and departure to Rhodes. This quarrel appears
to have arisen from differences of literary aims and taste, but, as
literary differences often do, degenerated into the bitterest personal
strife. There are references to the quarrel in the writings of both.
Callimachus attacks Apollonius in the passage at the end of the <i>Hymn to
Apollo</i>, already mentioned, also probably in some epigrams, but most of
all in his <i>Ibis</i>, of which we have an imitation, or perhaps nearly a
translation, in Ovid's poem of the same name. On the part of Apollonius
there is a passage in the third book of the <i>Argonautica</i> (11. 927-947)
which is of a polemical nature and stands out from the context, and the
well-known savage epigram upon Callimachus.[1] Various combinations have
been attempted by scholars, notably by Couat, in his <i>Poésie
Alexandrine</i>, to give a connected account of the quarrel, but we have
not <i>data</i> sufficient to determine the order of the attacks, and
replies, and counter-attacks. The <i>Ibis</i> has been thought to mark the
termination of the feud on the curious ground that it was impossible for
abuse to go further. It was an age when literary men were more inclined
to comment on writings of the past than to produce original work.
Literature was engaged in taking stock of itself. Homer was, of course,
professedly admired by all, but more admired than imitated. Epic poetry
was out of fashion and we find many epigrams of this period—some by
Callimachus—directed against the "cyclic" poets, by whom were meant at
that time those who were always dragging in conventional and commonplace
epithets and phrases peculiar to epic poetry. Callimachus was in
accordance with the spirit of the age when he proclaimed "a great book"
to be "a great evil," and sought to confine poetical activity within the
narrowest limits both of subject and space. Theocritus agreed with him,
both in principle and practice. The chief characteristics of
Alexandrianism are well summarized by Professor Robinson Ellis as
follows: "Precision in form and metre, refinement in diction, a learning
often degenerating into pedantry and obscurity, a resolute avoidance of
everything commonplace in subject, sentiment or allusion." These traits
are more prominent in Callimachus than in Apollonius, but they are
certainly to be seen in the latter. He seems to have written the
<i>Argonautica</i> out of bravado, to show that he <i>could</i> write an epic
poem. But the influence of the age was too strong. Instead of the unity
of an Epic we have merely a series of episodes, and it is the great
beauty and power of one of these episodes that gives the poem its
permanent value—the episode of the love of Jason and Medea. This
occupies the greater part of the third book. The first and second books
are taken up with the history of the voyage to Colchis, while the fourth
book describes the return voyage. These portions constitute a metrical
guide book, filled no doubt with many pleasing episodes, such as the
rape of Hylas, the boxing match between Pollux and Amycus, the account
of Cyzicus, the account of the Amazons, the legend of Talos, but there
is no unity running through the poem beyond that of the voyage itself.</p>

<p id="id00021">[Footnote 1: Anth. Pal. xi. 275.]</p>

<p id="id00022">The Tale of the Argonauts had been told often before in verse and prose,
and many authors' names are given in the Scholia to Apollonius, but
their works have perished. The best known earlier account that we have
is that in Pindar's fourth Pythian ode, from which Apollonius has taken
many details. The subject was one for an epic poem, for its unity might
have been found in the working out of the expiation due for the crime of
Athamas; but this motive is barely mentioned by our author.</p>

<p id="id00023">As we have it, the motive of the voyage is the command of Pelias to
bring back the golden fleece, and this command is based on Pelias'
desire to destroy Jason, while the divine aid given to Jason results
from the intention of Hera to punish Pelias for his neglect of the
honour due to her. The learning of Apollonius is not deep but it is
curious; his general sentiments are not according to the Alexandrian
standard, for they are simple and obvious. In the mass of material from
which he had to choose the difficulty was to know what to omit, and much
skill is shewn in fusing into a tolerably harmonious whole conflicting
mythological and historical details. He interweaves with his narrative
local legends and the founding of cities, accounts of strange customs,
descriptions of works of art, such as that of Ganymede and Eros playing
with knucklebones,[1] but prosaically calls himself back to the point
from these pleasing digressions by such an expression as "but this would
take me too far from my song." His business is the straightforward tale
and nothing else. The astonishing geography of the fourth book reminds
us of the interest of the age in that subject, stimulated no doubt by
the researches of Eratosthenes and others.</p>

<p id="id00024">[Footnote 1: iii. 117-124.]</p>

<p id="id00025">The language is that of the conventional epic. Apollonius seems to have
carefully studied Homeric glosses, and gives many examples of isolated
uses, but his choice of words is by no means limited to Homer. He freely
avails himself of Alexandrian words and late uses of Homeric words.
Among his contemporaries Apollonius suffers from a comparison with
Theocritus, who was a little his senior, but he was much admired by
Roman writers who derived inspiration from the great classical writers
of Greece by way of Alexandria. In fact Alexandria was a useful bridge
between Athens and Rome. The <i>Argonautica</i> was translated by Varro
Atacinus, copied by Ovid and Virgil, and minutely studied by Valerius
Flaccus in his poem of the same name. Some of his finest passages have
been appropriated and improved upon by Virgil by the divine right of
superior genius.[1] The subject of love had been treated in the romantic
spirit before the time of Apollonius in writings that have perished, for
instance, in those of Antimachus of Colophon, but the <i>Argonautica</i> is
perhaps the first poem still extant in which the expression of this
spirit is developed with elaboration. The Medea of Apollonius is the
direct precursor of the Dido of Virgil, and it is the pathos and passion
of the fourth book of the Aeneid that keep alive many a passage of
Apollonius.</p>

<p id="id00026">[Footnote 1: e.g. compare <i>Aen.</i> iv. 305 foll, with Ap. Rh. iv. 355
foll., <i>Aen.</i> iv. 327-330 with Ap. Rh. i. 897, 898, <i>Aen.</i> iv. 522
foll., with Ap. Rh. iii. 744 foll.]</p>

<h2 id="id00027" style="margin-top: 4em">BIBLIOGRAPHY.</h2>

<p id="id00028" style="margin-top: 2em">Two editions of the Argonautica were published by Apollonius. Of these
we have only the second. The Scholia preserve a few passages of the
first edition, from which the second seems to have differed only
slightly. The old opinion that our MSS. preserve any traces of the first
edition has long been given up. The principal MSS. are the following:—</p>

<p id="id00029" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Laurentian, also called the Medicean, XXXII. 9, of the early
     eleventh century, the excellent MS. at Florence which contains
     Sophocles, Aeschylus and Apollonius Rhodius. This is far the best
     authority for the text (here denoted by L).</p>

<p id="id00030" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Guelferbytanus of the thirteenth century, which closely agrees
     with another Laurentian, XXXII. 16, of the same date (here denoted
     by G and L^2 respectively).</p>

<p id="id00031">There were in the early eleventh century two types of text, the first
being best known to us by L, the second by G and L^2 and the corrections
made in L. Quotations in the Etymologicum Magnum agree with the second
type and show that this is as old as the fifth century. Besides these
there are, of inferior MSS., four Vatican and five Parisian which are
occasionally useful. Most of them have Scholia; the best Scholia are
those of L.</p>

<p id="id00032">The principal editions are:—</p>

<p id="id00033">Florence, 1496, 4to. This is the <i>editio princeps</i>, by Lascaris, based
on L, with Scholia, a very rare book.</p>

<p id="id00034">Venice, 1521, 8vo. The Aldine, by Franciscus Asulanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00035">Paris, 1541, 8vo, based on the Parisian MSS.</p>

<p id="id00036">Geneva, 1574, 4to, by Stephanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00037">Leyden, 1641, 2 vols., 8vo, by J. Hölzlin, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00038">Oxford, 1777, 2 vols., 4to, by J. Shaw, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00039">Strassburg, 1780, 8vo and 4to, by R.F.P. Brunck.</p>

<p id="id00040">Rome, 1791-1794, 2 vols., 4to, by Flangini, with an Italian translation.</p>

<p id="id00041">Leipzig, 1797, 8vo, by Ch. D. Beck, with a Latin version. A second
volume, to contain the Scholia and a commentary, was never published.</p>

<p id="id00042">Leipzig, 1810-1813, 2 vols., 8vo. A second edition of Brunck by G.H.
Schäfer, with the Florentine and Parisian Scholia, the latter printed
for the first time.</p>

<p id="id00043">Leipzig, 1828, 8vo, by A. Wellauer, with the Scholia, both Florentine
and Parisian.</p>

<p id="id00044">Paris, 1811, 4to, by F.S. Lehrs, with a Latin version. In the Didot
series.</p>

<p id="id00045">Leipzig, 1852, 8vo, by R. Merkel, "ad cod. MS. Laurentianum." The<br />

Teubner Text.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00046">Leipzig, 1854, 2 vols., 8vo, by R. Merkel. The second volume contains<br />

Merkel's prolegomena and the Scholia to L, edited by H. Keil.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00047">Oxford, 1900, 8vo, by R.C. Seaton. In the "Scriptorum Classicorum<br />

Bibliotheca Oxoniensis" series.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00048">The text of the present edition is, with a few exceptions, that of the
Oxford edition prepared by me for the Delegates of the Clarendon Press,
whom I hereby thank for their permission to use it.</p>

<p id="id00049">The English translations of Apollonius are as follows:—</p>

<p id="id00050">By E.B. Greene, by F. Fawkes, both 1780; by W. Preston, 1803. None of
these are of value. There is a prose translation by E.P. Coleridge in
the Bohn Series. The most recent and also the best is a verse
translation by Mr. A.S. Way, 1901, in "The Temple Classics."</p>

<p id="id00051">I may also mention the excellent translation in French by Prof. H. de La<br />

Ville de Mirmont of the University of Bordeaux, 1892.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00052">Upon Alexandrian literature in general Couat's <i>Poésie Alexandrine, sous
les trois premiers Ptoletmées</i>, 1882, may be recommended. Susemihl's
<i>Geschichte der Griechischen Litteratur in der Alexandinerzeit</i>, 2
vols., 1891, is a perfect storehouse of facts and authorities, but more
adapted for reference than for general reading. Morris' <i>Life and Death
of Jason</i> is a poem that in many passages singularly resembles
Apollonius in its pessimistic tone and spirit.</p>

<h2 id="id00053" style="margin-top: 4em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h2>

<h5 id="id00054">THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<h5 id="id00055">BOOK I</h5>

<h4 id="id00056" style="margin-top: 2em">SUMMARY OF BOOK I</h4>

<p id="id00057" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     Invocation of Phoebus and cause of the expedition
     (1-22).—Catalogue of the Argonauts (23-233).—March of the heroes
     to the port: farewell of Jason and Alcimede
     (234-305).—Preparations for departure and launching of Argo:
     sacrifice to Apollo: prediction of Idmon (306-447).—The festival,
     insolence of Idas, song of Orpheus and departure (448-558).—Voyage
     along the coast of Thessaly and across to Lemnos (559-608).—Recent
     history of Lemnos and stay of the Argonauts there: farewell of
     Jason and Hypsipyle (609-909).—Voyage from Lemnos by Samothrace to
     the Propontis: reception by the Doliones of Cyzicus
     (910-988).—Fight against the Giants: departure and return of the
     Argonauts to Cyzicus: sacrifice to Rhea on Mt. Dindymum
     (989-1152).—Arrival among the Mysians: rape of Hylas, which is
     announced to Heracles (1153-1260).—While Heracles and Polyphemus
     search for Hylas they are left behind (1261-1328).—The fate of
     Heracles and Polyphemus: arrival of Argo among the Bebrycians
     (1329-1362).</p>

<h3 id="id00058" style="margin-top: 3em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS THE ARGONAUTICA</h3>

<h5 id="id00059">BOOK I</h5>

<p id="id00060" style="margin-top: 2em">Beginning with thee, O Phoebus, I will recount the famous deeds of men
of old, who, at the behest of King Pelias, down through the mouth of
Pontus and between the Cyanean rocks, sped well-benched Argo in quest of
the golden fleece.</p>

<p id="id00061">Such was the oracle that Pelias heard, that a hateful doom awaited
him—to be slain at the prompting of the man whom he should see coming
forth from the people with but one sandal. And no long time after, in
accordance with that true report, Jason crossed the stream of wintry
Anaurus on foot, and saved one sandal from the mire, but the other he
left in the depths held back by the flood. And straightway he came to
Pelias to share the banquet which the king was offering to his father
Poseidon and the rest of the gods, though he paid no honour to Pelasgian
Hera. Quickly the king saw him and pondered, and devised for him the
toil of a troublous voyage, in order that on the sea or among strangers
he might lose his home-return.</p>

<p id="id00062">The ship, as former bards relate, Argus wrought by the guidance of
Athena. But now I will tell the lineage and the names of the heroes, and
of the long sea-paths and the deeds they wrought in their wanderings;
may the Muses be the inspirers of my song!</p>

<p id="id00063">First then let us name Orpheus whom once Calliope bare, it is said,
wedded to Thracian Oeagrus, near the Pimpleian height. Men say that he
by the music of his songs charmed the stubborn rocks upon the mountains
and the course of rivers. And the wild oak-trees to this day, tokens of
that magic strain, that grow at Zone on the Thracian shore, stand in
ordered ranks close together, the same which under the charm of his lyre
he led down from Pieria. Such then was Orpheus whom Aeson's son welcomed
to share his toils, in obedience to the behest of Cheiron, Orpheus ruler
of Bistonian Pieria.</p>

<p id="id00064">Straightway came Asterion, whom Cometes begat by the waters of eddying<br />

Apidanus; he dwelt at Peiresiae near the Phylleian mount, where mighty<br />

Apidanus and bright Enipeus join their streams, coming together from<br />

afar.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00065">Next to them from Larisa came Polyphemus, son of Eilatus, who aforetime
among the mighty Lapithae, when they were arming themselves against the
Centaurs, fought in his younger days; now his limbs were grown heavy
with age, but his martial spirit still remained, even as of old.</p>

<p id="id00066">Nor was Iphiclus long left behind in Phylace, the uncle of Aeson's son;
for Aeson had wedded his sister Alcimede, daughter of Phylacus: his
kinship with her bade him be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00067">Nor did Admetus, the lord of Pherae rich in sheep, stay behind beneath
the peak of the Chalcodonian mount.</p>

<p id="id00068">Nor at Alope stayed the sons of Hermes, rich in corn-land, well skilled
in craftiness, Erytus and Echion, and with them on their departure their
kinsman Aethalides went as the third; him near the streams of Amphrysus
Eupolemeia bare, the daughter of Myrmidon, from Phthia; the two others
were sprung from Antianeira, daughter of Menetes.</p>

<p id="id00069">From rich Gyrton came Coronus, son of Caeneus, brave, but not braver
than his father. For bards relate that Caeneus though still living
perished at the hands of the Centaurs, when apart from other chiefs he
routed them; and they, rallying against him, could neither bend nor slay
him; but unconquered and unflinching he passed beneath the earth,
overwhelmed by the downrush of massy pines.</p>

<p id="id00070">There came too Titaresian Mopsus, whom above all men the son of Leto
taught the augury of birds; and Eurydamas the son of Ctimenus; he dwelt
at Dolopian Ctimene near the Xynian lake.</p>

<p id="id00071">Moreover Actor sent his son Menoetius from Opus that he might accompany
the chiefs.</p>

<p id="id00072">Eurytion followed and strong Eribotes, one the son of Teleon, the other
of Irus, Actor's son; the son of Teleon renowned Eribotes, and of Irus
Eurytion. A third with them was Oileus, peerless in courage and well
skilled to attack the flying foe, when they break their ranks.</p>

<p id="id00073">Now from Euboea came Canthus eager for the quest, whom Canethus son of
Abas sent; but he was not destined to return to Cerinthus. For fate had
ordained that he and Mopsus, skilled in the seer's art, should wander
and perish in the furthest ends of Libya. For no ill is too remote for
mortals to incur, seeing that they buried them in Libya, as far from the
Colchians as is the space that is seen between the setting and the
rising of the sun.</p>

<p id="id00074">To him Clytius and Iphitus joined themselves, the warders of Oechalia,
sons of Eurytus the ruthless, Eurytus, to whom the Far-shooting god gave
his bow; but he had no joy of the gift; for of his own choice he strove
even with the giver.</p>

<p id="id00075">After them came the sons of Aeacus, not both together, nor from the same
spot; for they settled far from Aegina in exile, when in their folly
they had slain their brother Phocus. Telamon dwelt in the Attic island;
but Peleus departed and made his home in Phthia.</p>

<p id="id00076">After them from Cecropia came warlike Butes, son of brave Teleon, and
Phalerus of the ashen spear. Alcon his father sent him forth; yet no
other sons had he to care for his old age and livelihood. But him, his
well-beloved and only son, he sent forth that amid bold heroes he might
shine conspicuous. But Theseus, who surpassed all the sons of
Erechtheus, an unseen bond kept beneath the land of Taenarus, for he had
followed that path with Peirithous; assuredly both would have lightened
for all the fulfilment of their toil.</p>

<p id="id00077">Tiphys, son of Hagnias, left the Siphaean people of the Thespians, well
skilled to foretell the rising wave on the broad sea, and well skilled
to infer from sun and star the stormy winds and the time for sailing.
Tritonian Athena herself urged him to join the band of chiefs, and he
came among them a welcome comrade. She herself too fashioned the swift
ship; and with her Argus, son of Arestor, wrought it by her counsels.
Wherefore it proved the most excellent of all ships that have made trial
of the sea with oars.</p>

<p id="id00078">After them came Phlias from Araethyrea, where he dwelt in affluence by
the favour of his father Dionysus, in his home by the springs of Asopus.</p>

<p id="id00079">From Argos came Talaus and Areius, sons of Bias, and mighty Leodocus,
all of whom Pero daughter of Neleus bare; on her account the Aeolid
Melampus endured sore affliction in the steading of Iphiclus.</p>

<p id="id00080">Nor do we learn that Heracles of the mighty heart disregarded the eager
summons of Aeson's son. But when he heard a report of the heroes'
gathering and had readied Lyrceian Argos from Arcadia by the road along
which he carried the boar alive that fed in the thickets of Lampeia,
near the vast Erymanthian swamp, the boar bound with chains he put down
from his huge shoulders at the entrance to the market-place of Mycenae;
and himself of his own will set out against the purpose of Eurystheus;
and with him went Hylas, a brave comrade, in the flower of youth, to
bear his arrows and to guard his bow.</p>

<p id="id00081">Next to him came a scion of the race of divine Danaus, Nauplius. He was
the son of Clytonaeus son of Naubolus; Naubolus was son of Lernus;
Lernus we know was the son of Proetus son of Nauplius; and once Amymone
daughter of Danaus, wedded to Poseidon, bare Nauplius, who surpassed all
men in naval skill.</p>

<p id="id00082">Idmon came last of all them that dwelt at Argos, though he had learnt
his own fate by augury, he came, that the people might not grudge him
fair renown. He was not in truth the son of Abas, but Leto's son himself
begat him to be numbered among the illustrious Aeolids; and himself
taught him the art of prophecy—to pay heed to birds and to observe the
signs of the burning sacrifice.</p>

<p id="id00083">Moreover Aetolian Leda sent from Sparta strong Polydeuces and Castor,
skilled to guide swift-footed steeds; these her dearly-loved sons she
bare at one birth in the house of Tyndareus; nor did she forbid their
departure; for she had thoughts worthy of the bride of Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00084">The sons of Aphareus, Lynceus and proud Idas, came from Arene, both
exulting in their great strength; and Lynceus too excelled in keenest
sight, if the report is true that that hero could easily direct his
sight even beneath the earth.</p>

<p id="id00085">And with them Neleian Periclymenus set out to come, eldest of all the
sons of godlike Neleus who were born at Pylos; Poseidon had given him
boundless strength and granted him that whatever shape he should crave
during the fight, that he should take in the stress of battle.</p>

<p id="id00086">Moreover from Arcadia came Amphidamas and Cepheus, who inhabited Tegea
and the allotment of Apheidas, two sons of Aleus; and Ancaeus followed
them as the third, whom his father Lycurgus sent, the brother older than
both. But he was left in the city to care for Aleus now growing old,
while he gave his son to join his brothers. Ancaeus went clad in the
skin of a Maenalian bear, and wielding in his right hand a huge
two-edged battleaxe. For his armour his grandsire had hidden in the
house's innermost recess, to see if he might by some means still stay
his departure.</p>

<p id="id00087">There came also Augeias, whom fame declared to be the son of Helios; he
reigned over the Eleans, glorying in his wealth; and greatly he desired
to behold the Colchian land and Aeetes himself the ruler of the
Colchians.</p>

<p id="id00088">Asterius and Amphion, sons of Hyperasius, came from Achaean Pellene,
which once Pelles their grandsire founded on the brows of Aegialus.</p>

<p id="id00089">After them from Taenarus came Euphemus whom, most swift-footed of men,
Europe, daughter of mighty Tityos, bare to Poseidon. He was wont to skim
the swell of the grey sea, and wetted not his swift feet, but just
dipping the tips of his toes was borne on the watery path.</p>

<p id="id00090">Yea, and two other sons of Poseidon came; one Erginus, who left the
citadel of glorious Miletus, the other proud Ancaeus, who left
Parthenia, the seat of Imbrasion Hera; both boasted their skill in
sea-craft and in war.</p>

<p id="id00091">After them from Calydon came the son of Oeneus, strong Meleagrus, and
Laocoon—Laocoon the brother of Oeneus, though not by the same mother,
for a serving-woman bare him; him, now growing old, Oeneus sent to guard
his son: thus Meleagrus, still a youth, entered the bold band of heroes.
No other had come superior to him, I ween, except Heracles, if for one
year more he had tarried and been nurtured among the Aetolians. Yea, and
his uncle, well skilled to fight whether with the javelin or hand to
hand, Iphiclus son of Thestius, bare him company on his way.</p>

<p id="id00092">With him came Palaemonius, son of Olenian Lernus, of Lernus by repute,
but his birth was from Hephaestus; and so he was crippled in his feet,
but his bodily frame and his valour no one would dare to scorn.
Wherefore he was numbered among all the chiefs, winning fame for Jason.</p>

<p id="id00093">From the Phocians came Iphitus sprung from Naubolus son of Ornytus; once
he had been his host when Jason went to Pytho to ask for a response
concerning his voyage; for there he welcomed him in his own halls.</p>

<p id="id00094">Next came Zetes and Calais, sons of Boreas, whom once Oreithyia,
daughter of Erechtheus, bare to Boreas on the verge of wintry Thrace;
thither it was that Thracian Boreas snatched her away from Cecropia as
she was whirling in the dance, hard by Ilissus' stream. And, carrying
her far off, to the spot that men called the rock of Sarpedon, near the
river Erginus, he wrapped her in dark clouds and forced her to his will.
There they were making their dusky wings quiver upon their ankles on
both sides as they rose, a great wonder to behold, wings that gleamed
with golden scales: and round their backs from the top of the head and
neck, hither and thither, their dark tresses were being shaken by the
wind.</p>

<p id="id00095">No, nor had Acastus son of mighty Pelias himself any will to stay behind
in the palace of his brave sire, nor Argus, helper of the goddess
Athena; but they too were ready to be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00096">So many then were the helpers who assembled to join the son of Aeson.
All the chiefs the dwellers thereabout called Minyae, for the most and
the bravest avowed that they were sprung from the blood of the daughters
of Minyas; thus Jason himself was the son of Alcimede who was born of
Clymene the daughter of Minyas.</p>

<p id="id00097">Now when all things had been made ready by the thralls, all things that
fully-equipped ships are furnished withal when men's business leads them
to voyage across the sea, then the heroes took their way through the
city to the ship where it lay on the strand that men call Magnesian
Pagasae; and a crowd of people hastening rushed together; but the heroes
shone like gleaming stars among the clouds; and each man as he saw them
speeding along with their armour would say:</p>

<p id="id00098">"King Zeus, what is the purpose of Pelias? Whither is he driving forth
from the Panachaean land so great a host of heroes? On one day they
would waste the palace of Aeetes with baleful fire, should he not yield
them the fleece of his own goodwill. But the path is not to be shunned,
the toil is hard for those who venture."</p>

<p id="id00099">Thus they spake here and there throughout the city; but the women often
raised their hands to the sky in prayer to the immortals to grant a
return, their hearts' desire. And one with tears thus lamented to her
fellow:</p>

<p id="id00100">"Wretched Alcimede, evil has come to thee at last though late, thou hast
not ended with splendour of life. Aeson too, ill-fated man! Surely
better had it been for him, if he were lying beneath the earth enveloped
in his shroud, still unconscious of bitter toils. Would that the dark
wave, when the maiden Helle perished, had overwhelmed Phrixus too with
the ram: but the dire portent even sent forth a human voice, that it
might cause to Alcimede sorrows and countless pains hereafter."</p>

<p id="id00101">Thus the women spake at the departure of the heroes. And now many
thralls, men and women, were gathered together, and his mother, smitten
with grief for Jason. And a bitter pang seized every woman's heart; and
with them groaned the father in baleful old age, lying on his bed,
closely wrapped round. But the hero straightway soothed their pain,
encouraging them, and bade the thralls take up his weapons for war; and
they in silence with downcast looks took them up. And even as the mother
had thrown her arms about her son, so she clung, weeping without stint,
as a maiden all alone weeps, falling fondly on the neck of her hoary
nurse, a maid who has now no others to care for her, but she drags on a
weary life under a stepmother, who maltreats her continually with ever
fresh insults, and as she weeps, her heart within her is bound fast with
misery, nor can she sob forth all the groans that struggle for
utterance; so without stint wept Alcimede straining her son in her arms,
and in her yearning grief spake as follows:</p>

<p id="id00102">"Would that on that day when, wretched woman that I am, I heard King
Pelias proclaim his evil behest, I had straightway given up my life and
forgotten my cares, so that thou thyself, my son, with thine own hands,
mightest have buried me; for that was the only wish left me still to be
fulfilled by thee, all the other rewards for thy nurture have I long
enjoyed. Now I, once so admired among Achaean women, shall be left
behind like a bondwoman in my empty halls, pining away, ill-fated one,
for love of thee, thee on whose account I had aforetime so much splendour
and renown, my only son for whom I loosed my virgin zone first and last.
For to me beyond others the goddess Eileithyia grudged abundant
offspring. Alas for my folly! Not once, not even in my dreams did I
forebode this, that the flight of Phrixus would bring me woe."</p>

<p id="id00103">Thus with moaning she wept, and her handmaidens, standing by, lamented;
but Jason spake gently to her with comforting words:</p>

<p id="id00104">"Do not, I pray thee, mother, store up bitter sorrows overmuch, for thou
wilt not redeem me from evil by tears, but wilt still add grief to
grief. For unseen are the woes that the gods mete out to mortals; be
strong to endure thy share of them though with grief in thy heart; take
courage from the promises of Athena, and from the answers of the gods
(for very favourable oracles has Phoebus given), and then from the help
of the chieftains. But do thou remain here, quiet among thy handmaids,
and be not a bird of ill omen to the ship; and thither my clansmen and
thralls will follow me."</p>

<p id="id00105">He spake, and started forth to leave the house. And as Apollo goes forth
from some fragrant shrine to divine Delos or Claros or Pytho or to broad
Lycia near the stream of Xanthus, in such beauty moved Jason through the
throng of people; and a cry arose as they shouted together. And there
met him aged Iphias, priestess of Artemis guardian of the city, and
kissed his right hand, but she had not strength to say a word, for all
her eagerness, as the crowd rushed on, but she was left there by the
wayside, as the old are left by the young, and he passed on and was gone
afar.</p>

<p id="id00106">Now when he had left the well-built streets of the city he came to the
beach of Pagasae, where his comrades greeted him as they stayed together
near the ship Argo. And he stood at the entering in, and they were
gathered to meet him. And they perceived Acastus and Argus coming from
the city, and they marvelled when they saw them hasting with all speed,
despite the will of Pelias. The one, Argus, son of Arestor, had cast
round his shoulders the hide of a bull reaching to his feet, with the
black hair upon it, the other, a fair mantle of double fold, which his
sister Pelopeia had given him. Still Jason forebore from asking them
about each point but bade all be seated for an assembly. And there, upon
the folded sails and the mast as it lay on the ground, they all took
their seats in order. And among them with goodwill spake Aeson's son:</p>

<p id="id00107">"All the equipment that a ship needs—for all is in due order—lies
ready for our departure. Therefore we will make no long delay in our
sailing for these things' sake, when the breezes but blow fair. But,
friends,—for common to all is our return to Hellas hereafter, and
common to all is our path to the land of Aeetes—now therefore with
ungrudging heart choose the bravest to be our leader, who shall be
careful for everything, to take upon him our quarrels and covenants with
strangers."</p>

<p id="id00108">Thus he spake; and the young heroes turned their eves towards bold
Heracles sitting in their midst, and with one shout they all enjoined
upon him to be their leader; but he, from the place where he sat,
stretched forth his right hand and said:</p>

<p id="id00109">"Let no one offer this honour to me. For I will not consent, and I will
forbid any other to stand up. Let the hero who brought us together,
himself be the leader of the host."</p>

<p id="id00110">Thus he spake with high thoughts, and they assented, as Heracles bade;
and warlike Jason himself rose up, glad at heart, and thus addressed the
eager throng:</p>

<p id="id00111">"If ye entrust your glory to my care, no longer as before let our path
be hindered. Now at last let us propitiate Phoebus with sacrifice and
straightway prepare a feast. And until my thralls come, the overseers of
my steading, whose care it is to choose out oxen from the herd and drive
them hither, we will drag down the ship to the sea, and do ye place all
the tackling within, and draw lots for the benches for rowing. Meantime
let us build upon the beach an altar to Apollo Embasius[1] who by an
oracle promised to point out and show me the paths of the sea, if by
sacrifice to him I should begin my venture for King Pelias."</p>

<p id="id00112">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of embarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00113">He spake, and was the first to turn to the work, and they stood up in
obedience to him; and they heaped their garments, one upon the other, on
a smooth stone, which the sea did not strike with its waves, but the
stormy surge had cleansed it long before. First of all, by the command
of Argus, they strongly girded the ship with a rope well twisted
within,[1] stretching it tight on each side, in order that the planks
might be well compacted by the bolts and might withstand the opposing
force of the surge. And they quickly dug a trench as wide as the space
the ship covered, and at the prow as far into the sea as it would run
when drawn down by their hands. And they ever dug deeper in front of the
stem, and in the furrow laid polished rollers; and inclined the ship
down upon the first rollers, that so she might glide and be borne on by
them. And above, on both sides, reversing the oars, they fastened them
round the thole-pins, so as to project a cubit's space. And the heroes
themselves stood on both sides at the oars in a row, and pushed forward
with chest and hand at once. And then Tiphys leapt on board to urge the
youths to push at the right moment; and calling on them he shouted
loudly; and they at once, leaning with all their strength, with one push
started the ship from her place, and strained with their feet, forcing
her onward; and Pelian Argo followed swiftly; and they on each side
shouted as they rushed on. And then the rollers groaned under the sturdy
keel as they were chafed, and round them rose up a dark smoke owing to
the weight, and she glided into the sea; but the heroes stood there and
kept dragging her back as she sped onward. And round the thole-pins they
fitted the oars, and in the ship they placed the mast and the well-made
sails and the stores.</p>

<p id="id00114">[Footnote 1: Or, reading [Greek: ektothen], "they strongly girded the
ship outside with a well-twisted rope." In either case there is probably
no allusion to [Greek: hupozômata] (ropes for undergirding) which-were
carried loose and only used in stormy weather.]</p>

<p id="id00115">Now when they had carefully paid heed to everything, first they
distributed the benches by lot, two men occupying one seat; but the
middle bench they chose for Heracles and Ancaeus apart from the other
heroes, Ancaeus who dwelt in Tegea. For them alone they left the middle
bench just as it was and not by lot; and with one consent they entrusted
Tiphys with guarding the helm of the well-stemmed ship.</p>

<p id="id00116">Next, piling up shingle near the sea, they raised there an altar on the
shore to Apollo, under the name of Actius[1] and Embasius, and quickly
spread above it logs of dried olive-wood. Meantime the herdsmen of
Aeson's son had driven before them from the herd two steers. These the
younger comrades dragged near the altars, and the others brought lustral
water and barley meal, and Jason prayed, calling on Apollo the god of
his fathers:</p>

<p id="id00117">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of the shore.]</p>

<p id="id00118">"Hear, O King, that dwellest in Pagasae and the city Aesonis, the city
called by my father's name, thou who didst promise me, when I sought thy
oracle at Pytho, to show the fulfilment and goal of my journey, for thou
thyself hast been the cause of my venture; now do thou thyself guide the
ship with my comrades safe and sound, thither and back again to Hellas.
Then in thy honour hereafter we will lay again on thy altar the bright
offerings of bulls—all of us who return; and other gifts in countless
numbers I will bring to Pytho and Ortygia. And now, come, Far-darter,
accept this sacrifice at our hands, which first of all we have offered
thee for this ship on our embarcation; and grant, O King, that with a
prosperous weird I may loose the hawsers, relying on thy counsel, and
may the breeze blow softly with which we shall sail over the sea in fair
weather."</p>

<p id="id00119">He spake, and with his prayer cast the barley meal. And they two girded
themselves to slay the steers, proud Ancaeus and Heracles. The latter
with his club smote one steer mid-head on the brow, and falling in a
heap on the spot, it sank to the ground; and Ancaeus struck the broad
neck of the other with his axe of bronze, and shore through the mighty
sinews; and it fell prone on both its horns. Their comrades quickly
severed the victims' throats, and flayed the hides: they sundered the
joints and carved the flesh, then cut out the sacred thigh bones, and
covering them all together closely with fat burnt them upon cloven wood.
And Aeson's son poured out pure libations, and Idmon rejoiced beholding
the flame as it gleamed on every side from the sacrifice, and the smoke
of it mounting up with good omen in dark spiral columns; and quickly he
spake outright the will of Leto's son:</p>

<p id="id00120">"For you it is the will of heaven and destiny that ye shall return here
with the fleece; but meanwhile both going and returning, countless
trials await you. But it is my lot, by the hateful decree of a god, to
die somewhere afar off on the mainland of Asia. Thus, though I learnt my
fate from evil omens even before now, I have left my fatherland to
embark on the ship, that so after my embarking fair fame may be left me
in my house."</p>

<p id="id00121">Thus he spake; and the youths hearing the divine utterance rejoiced at
their return, but grief seized them for the fate of Idmon. Now at the
hour when the sun passes his noon-tide halt and the ploughlands are just
being shadowed by the rocks, as the sun slopes towards the evening dusk,
at that hour all the heroes spread leaves thickly upon the sand and lay
down in rows in front of the hoary surf-line; and near them were spread
vast stores of viands and sweet wine, which the cupbearers had drawn off
in pitchers; afterwards they told tales one to another in turn, such as
youths often tell when at the feast and the bowl they take delightful
pastime, and insatiable insolence is far away. But here the son of
Aeson, all helpless, was brooding over each event in his mind, like one
oppressed with thought. And Idas noted him and assailed him with loud
voice:</p>

<p id="id00122">"Son of Aeson, what is this plan thou art turning over in mind. Speak
out thy thought in the midst. Does fear come on and master thee, fear,
that confounds cowards? Be witness now my impetuous spear, wherewith in
wars I win renown beyond all others (nor does Zeus aid me so much as my
own spear), that no woe will be fatal, no venture will be unachieved,
while Idas follows, even though a god should oppose thee. Such a
helpmeet am I that thou bringest from Arene."</p>

<p id="id00123">He spake, and holding a brimming goblet in both hands drank off the
unmixed sweet wine; and his lips and dark cheeks were drenched with it;
and all the heroes clamoured together and Idmon spoke out openly:</p>

<p id="id00124">"Vain wretch, thou art devising destruction for thyself before the time.
Does the pure wine cause thy bold heart to swell in thy breast to thy
ruin, and has it set thee on to dishonour the gods? Other words of
comfort there are with which a man might encourage his comrade; but thou
hast spoken with utter recklessness. Such taunts, the tale goes, did the
sons of Aloeus once blurt out against the blessed gods, and thou dost no
wise equal them in valour; nevertheless they were both slain by the
swift arrows of Leto's son, mighty though they were."</p>

<p id="id00125">Thus he spake, and Aphareian Idas laughed out, loud and long, and eyeing
him askance replied with biting words:</p>

<p id="id00126">"Come now, tell me this by thy prophetic art, whether for me too the
gods will bring to pass such doom as thy father promised for the sons of
Aloeus. And bethink thee how thou wilt escape from my hands alive, if
thou art caught making a prophecy vain as the idle wind."</p>

<p id="id00127">Thus in wrath Idas reviled him, and the strife would have gone further
had not their comrades and Aeson's son himself with indignant cry
restrained the contending chiefs; and Orpheus lifted his lyre in his
left hand and made essay to sing.</p>

<p id="id00128">He sang how the earth, the heaven and the sea, once mingled together in
one form, after deadly strife were separated each from other; and how
the stars and the moon and the paths of the sun ever keep their fixed
place in the sky; and how the mountains rose, and how the resounding
rivers with their nymphs came into being and all creeping things. And he
sang how first of all Ophion and Eurynome, daughter of Ocean, held the
sway of snowy Olympus, and how through strength of arm one yielded his
prerogative to Cronos and the other to Rhea, and how they fell into the
waves of Ocean; but the other two meanwhile ruled over the blessed
Titan-gods, while Zeus, still a child and with the thoughts of a child,
dwelt in the Dictaean cave; and the earthborn Cyclopes had not yet armed
him with the bolt, with thunder and lightning; for these things give
renown to Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00129">He ended, and stayed his lyre and divine voice. But though he had ceased
they still bent forward with eagerness all hushed to quiet, with ears
intent on the enchanting strain; such a charm of song had he left behind
in their hearts. Not long after they mixed libations in honour of Zeus,
with pious rites as is customary, and poured them upon the burning
tongues, and bethought them of sleep in the darkness.</p>

<p id="id00130">Now when gleaming dawn with bright eyes beheld the lofty peaks of
Pelion, and the calm headlands were being drenched as the sea was
ruffled by the winds, then Tiphys awoke from sleep; and at once he
roused his comrades to go on board and make ready the oars. And a
strange cry did the harbour of Pagasae utter, yea and Pelian Argo
herself, urging them to set forth. For in her a beam divine had been
laid which Athena had brought from an oak of Dodona and fitted in the
middle of the stem. And the heroes went to the benches one after the
other, as they had previously assigned for each to row in his place, and
took their seats in due order near their fighting gear. In the middle
sat Ancaeus and mighty Heracles, and near him he laid his club, and
beneath his tread the ship's keel sank deep. And now the hawsers were
being slipped and they poured wine on the sea. But Jason with tears held
his eyes away from his fatherland. And just as youths set up a dance in
honour of Phoebus either in Pytho or haply in Ortygia, or by the waters
of Ismenus, and to the sound of the lyre round his altar all together in
time beat the earth with swiftly-moving feet; so they to the sound of
Orpheus' lyre smote with their oars the rushing sea-water, and the surge
broke over the blades; and on this side and on that the dark brine
seethed with foam, boiling terribly through the might of the sturdy
heroes. And their arms shone in the sun like flame as the ship sped on;
and ever their wake gleamed white far behind, like a path seen over a
green plain. On that day all the gods looked down from heaven upon the
ship and the might of the heroes, half-divine, the bravest of men then
sailing the sea; and on the topmost heights the nymphs of Pelion
wondered as they beheld the work of Itonian Athena, and the heroes
themselves wielding the oars. And there came down from the mountain-top
to the sea Chiron, son of Philyra, and where the white surf broke he
dipped his feet, and, often waving with his broad hand, cried out to
them at their departure, "Good speed and a sorrowless home-return!" And
with him his wife, bearing Peleus' son Achilles on her arm, showed the
child to his dear father.</p>

<p id="id00131">Now when they had left the curving shore of the harbour through the
cunning and counsel of prudent Tiphys son of Hagnias, who skilfully
handled the well-polished helm that he might guide them steadfastly,
then at length they set up the tall mast in the mast-box, and secured it
with forestays, drawing them taut on each side, and from it they let
down the sail when they had hauled it to the top-mast. And a breeze came
down piping shrilly; and upon the deck they fastened the ropes
separately round the well-polished pins, and ran quietly past the long
Tisaean headland. And for them the son of Oeagrus touched his lyre and
sang in rhythmical song of Artemis, saviour of ships, child of a
glorious sire, who hath in her keeping those peaks by the sea, and the
land of Iolcos; and the fishes came darting through the deep sea, great
mixed with small, and followed gambolling along the watery paths. And as
when in the track of the shepherd, their master, countless sheep follow
to the fold that have fed to the full of grass, and he goes before gaily
piping a shepherd's strain on his shrill reed; so these fishes followed;
and a chasing breeze ever bore the ship onward.</p>

<p id="id00132">And straightway the misty land of the Pelasgians, rich in cornfields,
sank out of sight, and ever speeding onward they passed the rugged sides
of Pelion; and the Sepian headland sank away, and Sciathus appeared in
the sea, and far off appeared Piresiae and the calm shore of Magnesia on
the mainland and the tomb of Dolops; here then in the evening, as the
wind blew against them, they put to land, and paying honour to him at
nightfall burnt sheep as victims, while the sea was tossed by the swell:
and for two days they lingered on the shore, but on the third day they
put forth the ship, spreading on high the broad sail. And even now men
call that beach Aphetae[1] of Argo.</p>

<p id="id00133">[Footnote 1: i.e. The Starting.]</p>

<p id="id00134">Thence going forward they ran past Meliboea, escaping a stormy beach and
surf-line. And in the morning they saw Homole close at hand leaning on
the sea, and skirted it, and not long after they were about to pass by
the outfall of the river Amyrus. From there they beheld Eurymenae and
the sea-washed ravines of Ossa and Olympus; next they reached the slopes
of Pallene, beyond the headland of Canastra, running all night with the
wind. And at dawn before them as they journeyed rose Athos, the Thracian
mountain, which with its topmost peak overshadows Lemnos, even as far as
Myrine, though it lies as far off as the space that a well-trimmed
merchantship would traverse up to mid-day. For them on that day, till
darkness fell, the breeze blew exceedingly fresh, and the sails of the
ship strained to it. But with the setting of the sun the wind left them,
and it was by the oars that they reached Lemnos, the Sintian isle.</p>

<p id="id00135">Here the whole of the men of the people together had been ruthlessly
slain through the transgressions of the women in the year gone by. For
the men had rejected their lawful wives, loathing them, and had
conceived a fierce passion for captive maids whom they themselves
brought across the sea from their forays in Thrace; for the terrible
wrath of Cypris came upon them, because for a long time they had grudged
her the honours due. O hapless women, and insatiate in jealousy to their
own ruin! Not their husbands alone with the captives did they slay on
account of the marriage-bed, but all the males at the same time, that
they might thereafter pay no retribution for the grim murder. And of all
the women, Hypsipyle alone spared her aged father Thoas, who was king
over the people; and she sent him in a hollow chest to drift over the
sea, if haply he should escape. And fishermen dragged him to shore at
the island of Oenoe, formerly Oenoe, but afterwards called Sicinus from
Sicinus, whom the water-nymph Oenoe bore to Thoas. Now for all the women
to tend kine, to don armour of bronze, and to cleave with the
plough-share the wheat-bearing fields, was easier than the works of
Athena, with which they were busied aforetime. Yet for all that did they
often gaze over the broad sea, in grievous fear against the Thracians'
coming. So when they saw Argo being rowed near the island, straightway
crowding in multitude from the gates of Myrine and clad in their harness
of war, they poured forth to the beach like ravening Thyiades; for they
deemed that the Thracians were come; and with them Hypsipyle, daughter
of Thoas, donned her father's harness. And they streamed down speechless
with dismay; such fear was wafted about them.</p>

<p id="id00136">Meantime from the ship the chiefs had sent Aethalides the swift herald,
to whose care they entrusted their messages and the wand of Hermes, his
sire, who had granted him a memory of all things, that never grew dim;
and not even now, though he has entered the unspeakable whirlpools of
Acheron, has forgetfulness swept over his soul, but its fixed doom is to
be ever changing its abode; at one time to be numbered among the
dwellers beneath the earth, at another to be in the light of the sun
among living men. But why need I tell at length tales of Aethalides? He
at that time persuaded Hypsipyle to receive the new-comers as the day
was waning into darkness; nor yet at dawn did they loose the ship's
hawsers to the breath of the north wind.</p>

<p id="id00137">Now the Lemnian women fared through the city and sat down to the
assembly, for Hypsipyle herself had so bidden. And when they were all
gathered together in one great throng straightway she spake among them
with stirring words:</p>

<p id="id00138">"O friends, come let us grant these men gifts to their hearts' desire,
such as it is fitting that they should take on ship-board, food and
sweet wine, in order that they may steadfastly remain outside our
towers, and may not, passing among us for need's sake, get to know us
all too well, and so an evil report be widely spread; for we have
wrought a terrible deed and in nowise will it be to their liking, should
they learn it. Such is our counsel now, but if any of you can devise a
better plan let her rise, for it was on this account that I summoned you
hither."</p>

<p id="id00139">Thus she spake and sat upon her father's seat of stone, and then rose up
her dear nurse Polyxo, for very age halting upon her withered feet,
bowed over a staff, and she was eager to address them. Near her were
seated four virgins, unwedded, crowned with white hair. And she stood in
the midst of the assembly and from her bent back she feebly raised her
neck and spake thus:</p>

<p id="id00140">"Gifts, as Hypsipyle herself wishes, let us send to the strangers, for
it is better to give them. But for you what device have ye to get profit
of your life if the Thracian host fall upon us, or some other foe, as
often happens among men, even as now this company is come unforeseen?
But if one of the blessed gods should turn this aside yet countless
other woes worse than battle, remain behind, when the aged women die off
and ye younger ones, without children, reach hateful old age. How then
will ye live, hapless ones? Will your oxen of their own accord yoke
themselves for the deep ploughlands and draw the earth-cleaving share
through the fallow, and forthwith, as the year comes round, reap the
harvest? Assuredly, though the fates till now have shunned me in horror,
I deem that in the coming year I shall put on the garment of earth, when
I have received my meed of burial even so as is right, before the evil
days draw near. But I bid you who are younger give good heed to this.
For now at your feet a way of escape lies open, if ye trust to the
strangers the care of your homes and all your stock and your glorious
city."</p>

<p id="id00141">Thus she spake, and the assembly was filled with clamour. For the word
pleased them. And after her straightway Hypsipyle rose up again, and
thus spake in reply.</p>

<p id="id00142">"If this purpose please you all, now will I even send a messenger to the
ship."</p>

<p id="id00143">She spake and addressed Iphinoe close at hand: "Go, Iphinoe, and beg
yonder man, whoever it is that leads this array, to come to our land
that I may tell him a word that pleases the heart of my people, and bid
the men themselves, if they wish, boldly enter the land and the city
with friendly intent."</p>

<p id="id00144">She spake, and dismissed the assembly, and thereafter started to return
home. And so Iphinoe came to the Minyae; and they asked with what intent
she had come among them. And quickly she addressed her questioners with
all speed in these words:</p>

<p id="id00145">"The maiden Hypsipyle daughter of Thoas, sent me on my way here to you,
to summon the captain of your ship, whoever he be, that she may tell him
a word that pleases the heart of the people, and she bids yourselves, if
ye wish it, straightway enter the land and the city with friendly
intent."</p>

<p id="id00146">Thus she spake and the speech of good omen pleased all. And they deemed
that Thoas was dead and that his beloved daughter Hypsipyle was queen,
and quickly they sent Jason on his way and themselves made ready to go.</p>

<p id="id00147">Now he had buckled round his shoulders a purple mantle of double fold,
the work of the Tritonian goddess, which Pallas had given him when she
first laid the keel-props of the ship Argo and taught him how to measure
timbers with the rule. More easily wouldst thou cast thy eyes upon the
sun at its rising than behold that blazing splendour. For indeed in the
middle the fashion thereof was red, but at the ends it was all purple,
and on each margin many separate devices had been skilfully inwoven.</p>

<p id="id00148">In it were the Cyclops seated at their imperishable work, forging a
thunderbolt for King Zeus; by now it was almost finished in its
brightness and still it wanted but one ray, which they were beating out
with their iron hammers as it spurted forth a breath of raging flame.</p>

<p id="id00149">In it too were the twin sons of Antiope, daughter of Asopus, Amphion and
Zethus, and Thebe still ungirt with towers was lying near, whose
foundations they were just then laying in eager haste. Zethus on his
shoulders was lifting the peak of a steep mountain, like a man toiling
hard, and Amphion after him, singing loud and clear on his golden lyre,
moved on, and a rock twice as large followed his footsteps.</p>

<p id="id00150">Next in order had been wrought Cytherea with drooping tresses, wielding
the swift shield of Ares; and from her shoulder to her left arm the
fastening of her tunic was loosed beneath her breast; and opposite in
the shield of bronze her image appeared clear to view as she stood.</p>

<p id="id00151">And in it there was a well-wooded pasturage of oxen; and about the oxen
the Teleboae and the sons of Electryon were fighting; the one party
defending themselves, the others, the Taphian raiders, longing to rob
them; and the dewy meadow was drenched with their blood, and the many
were overmastering the few herdsmen.</p>

<p id="id00152">And therein were fashioned two chariots, racing, and the one in front
Pelops was guiding, as he shook the reins, and with him was Hippodameia
at his side, and in pursuit Myrtilus urged his steeds, and with him
Oenomaus had grasped his couched spear, but fell as the axle swerved and
broke in the nave, while he was eager to pierce the back of Pelops.</p>

<p id="id00153">And in it was wrought Phoebus Apollo, a stripling not yet grown up, in
the act of shooting at mighty Tityos who was boldly dragging his mother
by her veil, Tityos whom glorious Elare bare, but Earth nursed him and
gave him second birth.</p>

<p id="id00154">And in it was Phrixus the Minyan as though he were in very deed
listening to the ram, while it was like one speaking. Beholding them
thou wouldst be silent and wouldst cheat thy soul with the hope of
hearing some wise speech from them, and long wouldst thou gaze with that
hope.</p>

<p id="id00155">Such then were the gifts of the Tritonian goddess Athena. And in his
right hand Jason held a far-darting spear, which Atalanta gave him once
as a gift of hospitality in Maenalus as she met him gladly; for she
eagerly desired to follow on that quest; but he himself of his own
accord prevented the maid, for he feared bitter strife on account of her
love.</p>

<p id="id00156">And he went on his way to the city like to a bright star, which maidens,
pent up in new-built chambers, behold as it rises above their homes, and
through the dark air it charms their eyes with its fair red gleam and
the maid rejoices, love-sick for the youth who is far away amid
strangers, for whom her parents are keeping her to be his bride; like to
that star the hero trod the way to the city. And when they had passed
within the gates and the city, the women of the people surged behind
them, delighting in the stranger, but he with his eyes fixed on the
ground fared straight on, till he reached the glorious palace of
Hypsipyle; and when he appeared the maids opened the folding doors,
fitted with well-fashioned panels. Here Iphinoe leading him quickly
through a fair porch set him upon a shining seat opposite her mistress,
but Hypsipyle turned her eyes aside and a blush covered her maiden
cheeks, yet for all her modesty she addressed him with crafty words:</p>

<p id="id00157">"Stranger, why stay ye so long outside our towers? for the city is not
inhabited by the men, but they, as sojourners, plough the wheat-bearing
fields of the Thracian mainland. And I will tell out truly all our evil
plight, that ye yourselves too may know it well. When my father Thoas
reigned over the citizens, then our folk starting from their homes used
to plunder from their ships the dwellings of the Thracians who live
opposite, and they brought back hither measureless booty and maidens
too. But the counsel of the baneful goddess Cypris was working out its
accomplishment, who brought upon them soul destroying infatuation. For
they hated their lawful wives, and, yielding to their own mad folly,
drove them from their homes; and they took to their beds the captives of
their spear, cruel ones. Long in truth we endured it, if haply again,
though late, they might change their purpose, but ever the bitter woe
grew, twofold. And the lawful children were being dishonoured in their
halls, and a bastard race was rising. And thus unmarried maidens and
widowed mothers too wandered uncared for through the city; no father
heeded his daughter ever so little even though he should see her done to
death before his eyes at the hands of an insolent step-dame, nor did
sons, as before, defend their mother against unseemly outrage; nor did
brothers care at heart for their sister. But in their homes, in the
dance, in the assembly and the banquet all their thought was only for
their captive maidens; until some god put desperate courage in our
hearts no more to receive our lords on their return from Thrace within
our towers so that they might either heed the right or might depart and
begone elsewhither, they and their captives. So they begged of us all
the male children that were left in the city and went back to where even
now they dwell on the snowy tilths of Thrace. Do ye therefore stay and
settle with us; and shouldst them desire to dwell here, and this finds
favour with thee, assuredly thou shalt have the prerogative of my father
Thoas; and I deem that thou wilt not scorn our land at all; for it is
deep-soiled beyond all other islands that lie in the Aegaean sea. But
come now, return to the ship and relate my words to thy comrades, and
stay not outside our city."</p>

<p id="id00158">She spoke, glozing over the murder that had been wrought upon the men;
and Jason addressed her in answer:</p>

<p id="id00159">"Hypsipyle, very dear to our hearts is the help we shall meet with,
which thou grantest to us who need thee. And I will return again to the
city when I have told everything in order due. But let the sovereignty
of the island be thine; it is not in scorn I yield it up, but grievous
trials urge me on."</p>

<p id="id00160">He spake, and touched her right hand; and quickly he turned to go back:
and round him the young maids on every side danced in countless numbers
in their joy till he passed through the gates. And then they came to the
shore in smooth-running wains, bearing with them many gifts, when now he
had related from beginning to end the speech which Hypsipyle had spoken
when she summoned them; and the maids readily led the men back to their
homes for entertainment. For Cypris stirred in them a sweet desire, for
the sake of Hephaestus of many counsels, in order that Lemnos might be
again inhabited by men and not be ruined.</p>

<p id="id00161">Thereupon Aeson's son started to go to the royal home of Hypsipyle; and
the rest went each his way as chance took them, all but Heracles; for he
of his own will was left behind by the ship and a few chosen comrades
with him. And straightway the city rejoiced with dances and banquets,
being filled with the steam of sacrifice; and above all the immortals
they propitiated with songs and sacrifices the illustrious son of Hera
and Cypris herself. And the sailing was ever delayed from one day to
another; and long would they have lingered there, had not Heracles,
gathering together his comrades apart from the women, thus addressed
them with reproachful words:</p>

<p id="id00162">"Wretched men, does the murder of kindred keep us from our native land?
Or is it in want of marriage that we have come hither from thence, in
scorn of our countrywomen? Does it please us to dwell here and plough
the rich soil of Lemnos? No fair renown shall we win by thus tarrying so
long with stranger women; nor will some god seize and give us at our
prayer a fleece that moves of itself. Let us then return each to his
own; but him leave ye to rest all day long in the embrace of Hypsipyle
until he has peopled Lemnos with men-children, and so there come to him
great glory."</p>

<p id="id00163">Thus did he chide the band; but no one dared to meet his eye or to utter
a word in answer. But just as they were in the assembly they made ready
their departure in all haste, and the women came running towards them,
when they knew their intent. And as when bees hum round fair lilies
pouring forth from their hive in the rock, and all around the dewy
meadow rejoices, and they gather the sweet fruit, flitting from one to
another; even so the women eagerly poured forth, clustering round the
men with loud lament, and greeted each one with hands and voice, praying
the blessed gods to grant him a safe return. And so Hypsipyle too
prayed, seizing the hands of Aeson's son, and her tears flowed for the
loss of her lover:</p>

<p id="id00164">"Go, and may heaven bring thee back again with thy comrades unharmed,
bearing to the king the golden fleece, even as thou wilt and thy heart
desireth; and this island and my father's sceptre will be awaiting thee,
if on thy return hereafter thou shouldst choose to come hither again;
and easily couldst thou gather a countless host of men from other
cities. But thou wilt not have this desire, nor do I myself forbode that
so it will be. Still remember Hypsipyle when thou art far away and when
thou hast returned; and leave me some word of bidding, which I will
gladly accomplish, if haply heaven shall grant me to be a mother."</p>

<p id="id00165">And Aeson's son in admiration thus replied: "Hypsipyle, so may all these
things prove propitious by the favour of the blessed gods. But do thou
hold a nobler thought of me, since by the grace of Pelias it is enough
for me to dwell in my native land; may the gods only release me from my
toils. But if it is not my destiny to sail afar and return to the land
of Hellas, and if thou shouldst bear a male child, send him when grown
up to Pelasgian Iolcus, to heal the grief of my father and mother if so
be that he find them still living, in order that, far away from the
king, they may be cared for by their own hearth in their home."</p>

<p id="id00166">He spake, and mounted the ship first of all; and so the rest of the
chiefs followed, and, sitting in order, seized the oars; and Argus
loosed for them the hawsers from under the sea-beaten rock. Whereupon
they mightily smote the water with their long oars, and in the evening
by the injunctions of Orpheus they touched at the island of Electra,[1]
daughter of Atlas, in order that by gentle initiation they might learn
the rites that may not be uttered, and so with greater safety sail over
the chilling sea. Of these I will make no further mention; but I bid
farewell to the island itself and the indwelling deities, to whom belong
those mysteries, which it is not lawful for me to sing.</p>

<p id="id00167">[Footnote 1: Samothrace.]</p>

<p id="id00168">Thence did they row with eagerness over the depths of the black Sea,
having on the one side the land of the Thracians, on the other Imbros on
the south; and as the sun was just setting they reached the foreland of
the Chersonesus. There a strong south wind blew for them; and raising
the sails to the breeze they entered the swift stream of the maiden
daughter of Athamas; and at dawn the sea to the north was left behind
and at night they were coasting inside the Rhoeteian shore, with the
land of Ida on their right. And leaving Dardania they directed their
course to Abydus, and after it they sailed past Percote and the sandy
beach of Abarnis and divine Pityeia. And in that night, as the ship sped
on by sail and oar, they passed right through the Hellespont
dark-gleaming with eddies.</p>

<p id="id00169">There is a lofty island inside the Propontis, a short distance from the
Phrygian mainland with its rich cornfields, sloping to the sea, where an
isthmus in front of the mainland is flooded by the waves, so low does it
lie. And the isthmus has double shores, and they lie beyond the river
Aesepus, and the inhabitants round about call the island the Mount of
Bears. And insolent and fierce men dwell there, Earthborn, a great
marvel to the neighbours to behold; for each one has six mighty hands to
lift up, two from his sturdy shoulders, and four below, fitting close to
his terrible sides. And about the isthmus and the plain the Doliones had
their dwelling, and over them Cyzicus son of Aeneus was king, whom
Aenete the daughter of goodly Eusorus bare. But these men the Earthborn
monsters, fearful though they were, in nowise harried, owing to the
protection of Poseidon; for from him had the Doliones first sprung.
Thither Argo pressed on, driven by the winds of Thrace, and the Fair
haven received her as she sped. There they cast away their small
anchorstone by the advice of Tiphys and left it beneath a fountain, the
fountain of Artacie; and they took another meet for their purpose, a
heavy one; but the first, according to the oracle of the Far-Darter, the
Ionians, sons of Neleus, in after days laid to be a sacred stone, as was
right, in the temple of Jasonian Athena.</p>

<p id="id00170">Now the Doliones and Cyzicus himself all came together to meet them with
friendliness, and when they knew of the quest and their lineage welcomed
them with hospitality, and persuaded them to row further and to fasten
their ship's hawsers at the city harbour. Here they built an altar to
Ecbasian[1] Apollo and set it up on the beach, and gave heed to
sacrifices. And the king of his own bounty gave them sweet wine and
sheep in their need; for he had heard a report that whenever a godlike
band of heroes should come, straightway he should meet it with gentle
words and should have no thought of war. As with Jason, the soft down
was just blooming on his chin, nor yet had it been his lot to rejoice in
children, but still in his palace his wife was untouched by the pangs of
child-birth, the daughter of Percosian Merops, fair-haired Cleite, whom
lately by priceless gifts he had brought from her father's home from the
mainland opposite. But even so he left his chamber and bridal bed and
prepared a banquet among the strangers, casting all fears from his
heart. And they questioned one another in turn. Of them would he learn
the end of their voyage and the injunctions of Pelias; while they
enquired about the cities of the people round and all the gulf of the
wide Propontis; but further he could not tell them for all their desire
to learn. In the morning they climbed mighty Dindymum that they might
themselves behold the various paths of that sea; and they brought their
ship from its former anchorage to the harbour, Chytus; and the path they
trod is named the path of Jason.</p>

<p id="id00171">[Footnote 1: i.e. god of disembarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00172">But the Earthborn men on the other side rushed down from the mountain
and with crags below blocked up the mouth of vast Chytus towards the
sea, like men lying in wait for a wild beast within. But there Heracles
had been left behind with the younger heroes and he quickly bent his
back-springing bow against the monsters and brought them to earth one
after another; and they in their turn raised huge ragged rocks and
hurled them. For these dread monsters too, I ween, the goddess Hera,
bride of Zeus, had nurtured to be a trial for Heracles. And therewithal
came the rest of the martial heroes returning to meet the foe before
they reached the height of outlook, and they fell to the slaughter of
the Earthborn, receiving them with arrows and spears until they slew
them all as they rushed fiercely to battle. And as when woodcutters cast
in rows upon the beach long trees just hewn down by their axes, in order
that, once sodden with brine, they may receive the strong bolts; so
these monsters at the entrance of the foam-fringed harbour lay stretched
one after another, some in heaps bending their heads and breasts into
the salt waves with their limbs spread out above on the land; others
again were resting their heads on the sand of the shore and their feet
in the deep water, both alike a prey to birds and fishes at once.</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:47:26 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:26 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 19:47:27 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:27 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-03-24 19:47:27 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:28 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-03-24 19:47:29 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:47:29 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:47:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:31 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Argonautica, by Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00001">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 2em">Title: The Argonautica</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Apollonius Rhodius</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: November 8, 2004 [EBook #13977]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ARGONAUTICA ***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 4em">Produced by Ted Garvin, Aaron A. Reed and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net</p>

<h1 id="id00008" style="margin-top: 6em">                    APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h1>

<h5 id="id00009">                     THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 2em">              With An English Translation By</p>

<h5 id="id00011">                     R.C. SEATON, M.A.</h5>

<p id="id00012">        Formerly Fellow Of Jesus College, Cambridge</p>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 3em">                        <i> 1912 </i></p>

<h1 id="id00014" style="margin-top: 5em">CONTENTS</h1>

<h4 id="id00015" style="margin-top: 2em">INTRODUCTION
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BOOK I
BOOK II
BOOK III
BOOK IV
STEMMA MEDEAE
INDEX</h4>

<h2 id="id00016" style="margin-top: 4em">INTRODUCTION</h2>

<p id="id00017" style="margin-top: 2em">Much has been written about the chronology of Alexandrian literature and
the famous Library, founded by Ptolemy Soter, but the dates of the chief
writers are still matters of conjecture. The birth of Apollonius Rhodius
is placed by scholars at various times between 296 and 260 B.C., while
the year of his death is equally uncertain. In fact, we have very little
information on the subject. There are two "lives" of Apollonius in the
Scholia, both derived from an earlier one which is lost. From these we
learn that he was of Alexandria by birth,[1] that he lived in the time
of the Ptolemies, and was a pupil of Callimachus; that while still a
youth he composed and recited in public his <i>Argonautica</i>, and that the
poem was condemned, in consequence of which he retired to Rhodes; that
there he revised his poem, recited it with great applause, and hence
called himself a Rhodian. The second "life" adds: "Some say that he
returned to Alexandria and again recited his poem with the utmost
success, so that he was honoured with the libraries of the Museum[2] and
was buried with Callimachus." The last sentence may be interpreted by
the notice of Suidas, who informs us that Apollonius was a contemporary
of Eratosthenes, Euphorion and Timarchus, in the time of Ptolemy
Euergetes, and that he succeeded Eratosthenes in the headship of the
Alexandrian Library. Suidas also informs us elsewhere that Aristophanes
at the age of sixty-two succeeded Apollonius in this office. Many modern
scholars deny the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius for chronological
reasons, and there is considerable difficulty about it. The date of
Callimachus' <i>Hymn to Apollo,</i> which closes with some lines (105-113)
that are admittedly an allusion to Apollonius, may be put with much
probability at 248 or 247 B.C. Apollonius must at that date have been at
least twenty years old. Eratosthenes died 196-193 B.C. This would make
Apollonius seventy-two to seventy-five when he succeeded Eratosthenes.
This is not impossible, it is true, but it is difficult. But the
difficulty is taken away if we assume with Ritschl that Eratosthenes
resigned his office some years before his death, which allows us to put
the birth of Apollonius at about 280, and would solve other
difficulties. For instance, if the Librarians were buried within the
precincts, it would account for the burial of Apollonius next to
Callimachus—Eratosthenes being still alive. However that may be, it is
rather arbitrary to take away the "bibliothecariate" of Apollonius,
which is clearly asserted by Suidas, on account of chronological
calculations which are themselves uncertain. Moreover, it is more
probable that the words following "some say" in the second "life" are a
remnant of the original life than a conjectural addition, because the
first "life" is evidently incomplete, nothing being said about the end
of Apollonius' career.</p>

<p id="id00018">[Footnote 1: "Or of Naucratis," according to Aelian and Athenaeus.]</p>

<p id="id00019">[Footnote 2: [Greek: hôs kai tôn bibliothêkôn tou mouseiou axiôthênai
auton.]]</p>

<p id="id00020">The principal event in his life, so far as we know, was the quarrel with
his master Callimachus, which was most probably the cause of his
condemnation at Alexandria and departure to Rhodes. This quarrel appears
to have arisen from differences of literary aims and taste, but, as
literary differences often do, degenerated into the bitterest personal
strife. There are references to the quarrel in the writings of both.
Callimachus attacks Apollonius in the passage at the end of the <i>Hymn to
Apollo</i>, already mentioned, also probably in some epigrams, but most of
all in his <i>Ibis</i>, of which we have an imitation, or perhaps nearly a
translation, in Ovid's poem of the same name. On the part of Apollonius
there is a passage in the third book of the <i>Argonautica</i> (11. 927-947)
which is of a polemical nature and stands out from the context, and the
well-known savage epigram upon Callimachus.[1] Various combinations have
been attempted by scholars, notably by Couat, in his <i>Poésie
Alexandrine</i>, to give a connected account of the quarrel, but we have
not <i>data</i> sufficient to determine the order of the attacks, and
replies, and counter-attacks. The <i>Ibis</i> has been thought to mark the
termination of the feud on the curious ground that it was impossible for
abuse to go further. It was an age when literary men were more inclined
to comment on writings of the past than to produce original work.
Literature was engaged in taking stock of itself. Homer was, of course,
professedly admired by all, but more admired than imitated. Epic poetry
was out of fashion and we find many epigrams of this period—some by
Callimachus—directed against the "cyclic" poets, by whom were meant at
that time those who were always dragging in conventional and commonplace
epithets and phrases peculiar to epic poetry. Callimachus was in
accordance with the spirit of the age when he proclaimed "a great book"
to be "a great evil," and sought to confine poetical activity within the
narrowest limits both of subject and space. Theocritus agreed with him,
both in principle and practice. The chief characteristics of
Alexandrianism are well summarized by Professor Robinson Ellis as
follows: "Precision in form and metre, refinement in diction, a learning
often degenerating into pedantry and obscurity, a resolute avoidance of
everything commonplace in subject, sentiment or allusion." These traits
are more prominent in Callimachus than in Apollonius, but they are
certainly to be seen in the latter. He seems to have written the
<i>Argonautica</i> out of bravado, to show that he <i>could</i> write an epic
poem. But the influence of the age was too strong. Instead of the unity
of an Epic we have merely a series of episodes, and it is the great
beauty and power of one of these episodes that gives the poem its
permanent value—the episode of the love of Jason and Medea. This
occupies the greater part of the third book. The first and second books
are taken up with the history of the voyage to Colchis, while the fourth
book describes the return voyage. These portions constitute a metrical
guide book, filled no doubt with many pleasing episodes, such as the
rape of Hylas, the boxing match between Pollux and Amycus, the account
of Cyzicus, the account of the Amazons, the legend of Talos, but there
is no unity running through the poem beyond that of the voyage itself.</p>

<p id="id00021">[Footnote 1: Anth. Pal. xi. 275.]</p>

<p id="id00022">The Tale of the Argonauts had been told often before in verse and prose,
and many authors' names are given in the Scholia to Apollonius, but
their works have perished. The best known earlier account that we have
is that in Pindar's fourth Pythian ode, from which Apollonius has taken
many details. The subject was one for an epic poem, for its unity might
have been found in the working out of the expiation due for the crime of
Athamas; but this motive is barely mentioned by our author.</p>

<p id="id00023">As we have it, the motive of the voyage is the command of Pelias to
bring back the golden fleece, and this command is based on Pelias'
desire to destroy Jason, while the divine aid given to Jason results
from the intention of Hera to punish Pelias for his neglect of the
honour due to her. The learning of Apollonius is not deep but it is
curious; his general sentiments are not according to the Alexandrian
standard, for they are simple and obvious. In the mass of material from
which he had to choose the difficulty was to know what to omit, and much
skill is shewn in fusing into a tolerably harmonious whole conflicting
mythological and historical details. He interweaves with his narrative
local legends and the founding of cities, accounts of strange customs,
descriptions of works of art, such as that of Ganymede and Eros playing
with knucklebones,[1] but prosaically calls himself back to the point
from these pleasing digressions by such an expression as "but this would
take me too far from my song." His business is the straightforward tale
and nothing else. The astonishing geography of the fourth book reminds
us of the interest of the age in that subject, stimulated no doubt by
the researches of Eratosthenes and others.</p>

<p id="id00024">[Footnote 1: iii. 117-124.]</p>

<p id="id00025">The language is that of the conventional epic. Apollonius seems to have
carefully studied Homeric glosses, and gives many examples of isolated
uses, but his choice of words is by no means limited to Homer. He freely
avails himself of Alexandrian words and late uses of Homeric words.
Among his contemporaries Apollonius suffers from a comparison with
Theocritus, who was a little his senior, but he was much admired by
Roman writers who derived inspiration from the great classical writers
of Greece by way of Alexandria. In fact Alexandria was a useful bridge
between Athens and Rome. The <i>Argonautica</i> was translated by Varro
Atacinus, copied by Ovid and Virgil, and minutely studied by Valerius
Flaccus in his poem of the same name. Some of his finest passages have
been appropriated and improved upon by Virgil by the divine right of
superior genius.[1] The subject of love had been treated in the romantic
spirit before the time of Apollonius in writings that have perished, for
instance, in those of Antimachus of Colophon, but the <i>Argonautica</i> is
perhaps the first poem still extant in which the expression of this
spirit is developed with elaboration. The Medea of Apollonius is the
direct precursor of the Dido of Virgil, and it is the pathos and passion
of the fourth book of the Aeneid that keep alive many a passage of
Apollonius.</p>

<p id="id00026">[Footnote 1: e.g. compare <i>Aen.</i> iv. 305 foll, with Ap. Rh. iv. 355
foll., <i>Aen.</i> iv. 327-330 with Ap. Rh. i. 897, 898, <i>Aen.</i> iv. 522
foll., with Ap. Rh. iii. 744 foll.]</p>

<h2 id="id00027" style="margin-top: 4em">BIBLIOGRAPHY.</h2>

<p id="id00028" style="margin-top: 2em">Two editions of the Argonautica were published by Apollonius. Of these
we have only the second. The Scholia preserve a few passages of the
first edition, from which the second seems to have differed only
slightly. The old opinion that our MSS. preserve any traces of the first
edition has long been given up. The principal MSS. are the following:—</p>

<p id="id00029" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Laurentian, also called the Medicean, XXXII. 9, of the early
     eleventh century, the excellent MS. at Florence which contains
     Sophocles, Aeschylus and Apollonius Rhodius. This is far the best
     authority for the text (here denoted by L).</p>

<p id="id00030" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     The Guelferbytanus of the thirteenth century, which closely agrees
     with another Laurentian, XXXII. 16, of the same date (here denoted
     by G and L^2 respectively).</p>

<p id="id00031">There were in the early eleventh century two types of text, the first
being best known to us by L, the second by G and L^2 and the corrections
made in L. Quotations in the Etymologicum Magnum agree with the second
type and show that this is as old as the fifth century. Besides these
there are, of inferior MSS., four Vatican and five Parisian which are
occasionally useful. Most of them have Scholia; the best Scholia are
those of L.</p>

<p id="id00032">The principal editions are:—</p>

<p id="id00033">Florence, 1496, 4to. This is the <i>editio princeps</i>, by Lascaris, based
on L, with Scholia, a very rare book.</p>

<p id="id00034">Venice, 1521, 8vo. The Aldine, by Franciscus Asulanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00035">Paris, 1541, 8vo, based on the Parisian MSS.</p>

<p id="id00036">Geneva, 1574, 4to, by Stephanus, with Scholia.</p>

<p id="id00037">Leyden, 1641, 2 vols., 8vo, by J. Hölzlin, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00038">Oxford, 1777, 2 vols., 4to, by J. Shaw, with a Latin version.</p>

<p id="id00039">Strassburg, 1780, 8vo and 4to, by R.F.P. Brunck.</p>

<p id="id00040">Rome, 1791-1794, 2 vols., 4to, by Flangini, with an Italian translation.</p>

<p id="id00041">Leipzig, 1797, 8vo, by Ch. D. Beck, with a Latin version. A second
volume, to contain the Scholia and a commentary, was never published.</p>

<p id="id00042">Leipzig, 1810-1813, 2 vols., 8vo. A second edition of Brunck by G.H.
Schäfer, with the Florentine and Parisian Scholia, the latter printed
for the first time.</p>

<p id="id00043">Leipzig, 1828, 8vo, by A. Wellauer, with the Scholia, both Florentine
and Parisian.</p>

<p id="id00044">Paris, 1811, 4to, by F.S. Lehrs, with a Latin version. In the Didot
series.</p>

<p id="id00045">Leipzig, 1852, 8vo, by R. Merkel, "ad cod. MS. Laurentianum." The<br />

Teubner Text.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00046">Leipzig, 1854, 2 vols., 8vo, by R. Merkel. The second volume contains<br />

Merkel's prolegomena and the Scholia to L, edited by H. Keil.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00047">Oxford, 1900, 8vo, by R.C. Seaton. In the "Scriptorum Classicorum<br />

Bibliotheca Oxoniensis" series.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00048">The text of the present edition is, with a few exceptions, that of the
Oxford edition prepared by me for the Delegates of the Clarendon Press,
whom I hereby thank for their permission to use it.</p>

<p id="id00049">The English translations of Apollonius are as follows:—</p>

<p id="id00050">By E.B. Greene, by F. Fawkes, both 1780; by W. Preston, 1803. None of
these are of value. There is a prose translation by E.P. Coleridge in
the Bohn Series. The most recent and also the best is a verse
translation by Mr. A.S. Way, 1901, in "The Temple Classics."</p>

<p id="id00051">I may also mention the excellent translation in French by Prof. H. de La<br />

Ville de Mirmont of the University of Bordeaux, 1892.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00052">Upon Alexandrian literature in general Couat's <i>Poésie Alexandrine, sous
les trois premiers Ptoletmées</i>, 1882, may be recommended. Susemihl's
<i>Geschichte der Griechischen Litteratur in der Alexandinerzeit</i>, 2
vols., 1891, is a perfect storehouse of facts and authorities, but more
adapted for reference than for general reading. Morris' <i>Life and Death
of Jason</i> is a poem that in many passages singularly resembles
Apollonius in its pessimistic tone and spirit.</p>

<h2 id="id00053" style="margin-top: 4em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS</h2>

<h5 id="id00054">THE ARGONAUTICA</h5>

<h5 id="id00055">BOOK I</h5>

<h4 id="id00056" style="margin-top: 2em">SUMMARY OF BOOK I</h4>

<p id="id00057" style="margin-right: 6%; margin-left: 6%">     Invocation of Phoebus and cause of the expedition
     (1-22).—Catalogue of the Argonauts (23-233).—March of the heroes
     to the port: farewell of Jason and Alcimede
     (234-305).—Preparations for departure and launching of Argo:
     sacrifice to Apollo: prediction of Idmon (306-447).—The festival,
     insolence of Idas, song of Orpheus and departure (448-558).—Voyage
     along the coast of Thessaly and across to Lemnos (559-608).—Recent
     history of Lemnos and stay of the Argonauts there: farewell of
     Jason and Hypsipyle (609-909).—Voyage from Lemnos by Samothrace to
     the Propontis: reception by the Doliones of Cyzicus
     (910-988).—Fight against the Giants: departure and return of the
     Argonauts to Cyzicus: sacrifice to Rhea on Mt. Dindymum
     (989-1152).—Arrival among the Mysians: rape of Hylas, which is
     announced to Heracles (1153-1260).—While Heracles and Polyphemus
     search for Hylas they are left behind (1261-1328).—The fate of
     Heracles and Polyphemus: arrival of Argo among the Bebrycians
     (1329-1362).</p>

<h3 id="id00058" style="margin-top: 3em">APOLLONIUS RHODIUS THE ARGONAUTICA</h3>

<h5 id="id00059">BOOK I</h5>

<p id="id00060" style="margin-top: 2em">Beginning with thee, O Phoebus, I will recount the famous deeds of men
of old, who, at the behest of King Pelias, down through the mouth of
Pontus and between the Cyanean rocks, sped well-benched Argo in quest of
the golden fleece.</p>

<p id="id00061">Such was the oracle that Pelias heard, that a hateful doom awaited
him—to be slain at the prompting of the man whom he should see coming
forth from the people with but one sandal. And no long time after, in
accordance with that true report, Jason crossed the stream of wintry
Anaurus on foot, and saved one sandal from the mire, but the other he
left in the depths held back by the flood. And straightway he came to
Pelias to share the banquet which the king was offering to his father
Poseidon and the rest of the gods, though he paid no honour to Pelasgian
Hera. Quickly the king saw him and pondered, and devised for him the
toil of a troublous voyage, in order that on the sea or among strangers
he might lose his home-return.</p>

<p id="id00062">The ship, as former bards relate, Argus wrought by the guidance of
Athena. But now I will tell the lineage and the names of the heroes, and
of the long sea-paths and the deeds they wrought in their wanderings;
may the Muses be the inspirers of my song!</p>

<p id="id00063">First then let us name Orpheus whom once Calliope bare, it is said,
wedded to Thracian Oeagrus, near the Pimpleian height. Men say that he
by the music of his songs charmed the stubborn rocks upon the mountains
and the course of rivers. And the wild oak-trees to this day, tokens of
that magic strain, that grow at Zone on the Thracian shore, stand in
ordered ranks close together, the same which under the charm of his lyre
he led down from Pieria. Such then was Orpheus whom Aeson's son welcomed
to share his toils, in obedience to the behest of Cheiron, Orpheus ruler
of Bistonian Pieria.</p>

<p id="id00064">Straightway came Asterion, whom Cometes begat by the waters of eddying<br />

Apidanus; he dwelt at Peiresiae near the Phylleian mount, where mighty<br />

Apidanus and bright Enipeus join their streams, coming together from<br />

afar.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00065">Next to them from Larisa came Polyphemus, son of Eilatus, who aforetime
among the mighty Lapithae, when they were arming themselves against the
Centaurs, fought in his younger days; now his limbs were grown heavy
with age, but his martial spirit still remained, even as of old.</p>

<p id="id00066">Nor was Iphiclus long left behind in Phylace, the uncle of Aeson's son;
for Aeson had wedded his sister Alcimede, daughter of Phylacus: his
kinship with her bade him be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00067">Nor did Admetus, the lord of Pherae rich in sheep, stay behind beneath
the peak of the Chalcodonian mount.</p>

<p id="id00068">Nor at Alope stayed the sons of Hermes, rich in corn-land, well skilled
in craftiness, Erytus and Echion, and with them on their departure their
kinsman Aethalides went as the third; him near the streams of Amphrysus
Eupolemeia bare, the daughter of Myrmidon, from Phthia; the two others
were sprung from Antianeira, daughter of Menetes.</p>

<p id="id00069">From rich Gyrton came Coronus, son of Caeneus, brave, but not braver
than his father. For bards relate that Caeneus though still living
perished at the hands of the Centaurs, when apart from other chiefs he
routed them; and they, rallying against him, could neither bend nor slay
him; but unconquered and unflinching he passed beneath the earth,
overwhelmed by the downrush of massy pines.</p>

<p id="id00070">There came too Titaresian Mopsus, whom above all men the son of Leto
taught the augury of birds; and Eurydamas the son of Ctimenus; he dwelt
at Dolopian Ctimene near the Xynian lake.</p>

<p id="id00071">Moreover Actor sent his son Menoetius from Opus that he might accompany
the chiefs.</p>

<p id="id00072">Eurytion followed and strong Eribotes, one the son of Teleon, the other
of Irus, Actor's son; the son of Teleon renowned Eribotes, and of Irus
Eurytion. A third with them was Oileus, peerless in courage and well
skilled to attack the flying foe, when they break their ranks.</p>

<p id="id00073">Now from Euboea came Canthus eager for the quest, whom Canethus son of
Abas sent; but he was not destined to return to Cerinthus. For fate had
ordained that he and Mopsus, skilled in the seer's art, should wander
and perish in the furthest ends of Libya. For no ill is too remote for
mortals to incur, seeing that they buried them in Libya, as far from the
Colchians as is the space that is seen between the setting and the
rising of the sun.</p>

<p id="id00074">To him Clytius and Iphitus joined themselves, the warders of Oechalia,
sons of Eurytus the ruthless, Eurytus, to whom the Far-shooting god gave
his bow; but he had no joy of the gift; for of his own choice he strove
even with the giver.</p>

<p id="id00075">After them came the sons of Aeacus, not both together, nor from the same
spot; for they settled far from Aegina in exile, when in their folly
they had slain their brother Phocus. Telamon dwelt in the Attic island;
but Peleus departed and made his home in Phthia.</p>

<p id="id00076">After them from Cecropia came warlike Butes, son of brave Teleon, and
Phalerus of the ashen spear. Alcon his father sent him forth; yet no
other sons had he to care for his old age and livelihood. But him, his
well-beloved and only son, he sent forth that amid bold heroes he might
shine conspicuous. But Theseus, who surpassed all the sons of
Erechtheus, an unseen bond kept beneath the land of Taenarus, for he had
followed that path with Peirithous; assuredly both would have lightened
for all the fulfilment of their toil.</p>

<p id="id00077">Tiphys, son of Hagnias, left the Siphaean people of the Thespians, well
skilled to foretell the rising wave on the broad sea, and well skilled
to infer from sun and star the stormy winds and the time for sailing.
Tritonian Athena herself urged him to join the band of chiefs, and he
came among them a welcome comrade. She herself too fashioned the swift
ship; and with her Argus, son of Arestor, wrought it by her counsels.
Wherefore it proved the most excellent of all ships that have made trial
of the sea with oars.</p>

<p id="id00078">After them came Phlias from Araethyrea, where he dwelt in affluence by
the favour of his father Dionysus, in his home by the springs of Asopus.</p>

<p id="id00079">From Argos came Talaus and Areius, sons of Bias, and mighty Leodocus,
all of whom Pero daughter of Neleus bare; on her account the Aeolid
Melampus endured sore affliction in the steading of Iphiclus.</p>

<p id="id00080">Nor do we learn that Heracles of the mighty heart disregarded the eager
summons of Aeson's son. But when he heard a report of the heroes'
gathering and had readied Lyrceian Argos from Arcadia by the road along
which he carried the boar alive that fed in the thickets of Lampeia,
near the vast Erymanthian swamp, the boar bound with chains he put down
from his huge shoulders at the entrance to the market-place of Mycenae;
and himself of his own will set out against the purpose of Eurystheus;
and with him went Hylas, a brave comrade, in the flower of youth, to
bear his arrows and to guard his bow.</p>

<p id="id00081">Next to him came a scion of the race of divine Danaus, Nauplius. He was
the son of Clytonaeus son of Naubolus; Naubolus was son of Lernus;
Lernus we know was the son of Proetus son of Nauplius; and once Amymone
daughter of Danaus, wedded to Poseidon, bare Nauplius, who surpassed all
men in naval skill.</p>

<p id="id00082">Idmon came last of all them that dwelt at Argos, though he had learnt
his own fate by augury, he came, that the people might not grudge him
fair renown. He was not in truth the son of Abas, but Leto's son himself
begat him to be numbered among the illustrious Aeolids; and himself
taught him the art of prophecy—to pay heed to birds and to observe the
signs of the burning sacrifice.</p>

<p id="id00083">Moreover Aetolian Leda sent from Sparta strong Polydeuces and Castor,
skilled to guide swift-footed steeds; these her dearly-loved sons she
bare at one birth in the house of Tyndareus; nor did she forbid their
departure; for she had thoughts worthy of the bride of Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00084">The sons of Aphareus, Lynceus and proud Idas, came from Arene, both
exulting in their great strength; and Lynceus too excelled in keenest
sight, if the report is true that that hero could easily direct his
sight even beneath the earth.</p>

<p id="id00085">And with them Neleian Periclymenus set out to come, eldest of all the
sons of godlike Neleus who were born at Pylos; Poseidon had given him
boundless strength and granted him that whatever shape he should crave
during the fight, that he should take in the stress of battle.</p>

<p id="id00086">Moreover from Arcadia came Amphidamas and Cepheus, who inhabited Tegea
and the allotment of Apheidas, two sons of Aleus; and Ancaeus followed
them as the third, whom his father Lycurgus sent, the brother older than
both. But he was left in the city to care for Aleus now growing old,
while he gave his son to join his brothers. Ancaeus went clad in the
skin of a Maenalian bear, and wielding in his right hand a huge
two-edged battleaxe. For his armour his grandsire had hidden in the
house's innermost recess, to see if he might by some means still stay
his departure.</p>

<p id="id00087">There came also Augeias, whom fame declared to be the son of Helios; he
reigned over the Eleans, glorying in his wealth; and greatly he desired
to behold the Colchian land and Aeetes himself the ruler of the
Colchians.</p>

<p id="id00088">Asterius and Amphion, sons of Hyperasius, came from Achaean Pellene,
which once Pelles their grandsire founded on the brows of Aegialus.</p>

<p id="id00089">After them from Taenarus came Euphemus whom, most swift-footed of men,
Europe, daughter of mighty Tityos, bare to Poseidon. He was wont to skim
the swell of the grey sea, and wetted not his swift feet, but just
dipping the tips of his toes was borne on the watery path.</p>

<p id="id00090">Yea, and two other sons of Poseidon came; one Erginus, who left the
citadel of glorious Miletus, the other proud Ancaeus, who left
Parthenia, the seat of Imbrasion Hera; both boasted their skill in
sea-craft and in war.</p>

<p id="id00091">After them from Calydon came the son of Oeneus, strong Meleagrus, and
Laocoon—Laocoon the brother of Oeneus, though not by the same mother,
for a serving-woman bare him; him, now growing old, Oeneus sent to guard
his son: thus Meleagrus, still a youth, entered the bold band of heroes.
No other had come superior to him, I ween, except Heracles, if for one
year more he had tarried and been nurtured among the Aetolians. Yea, and
his uncle, well skilled to fight whether with the javelin or hand to
hand, Iphiclus son of Thestius, bare him company on his way.</p>

<p id="id00092">With him came Palaemonius, son of Olenian Lernus, of Lernus by repute,
but his birth was from Hephaestus; and so he was crippled in his feet,
but his bodily frame and his valour no one would dare to scorn.
Wherefore he was numbered among all the chiefs, winning fame for Jason.</p>

<p id="id00093">From the Phocians came Iphitus sprung from Naubolus son of Ornytus; once
he had been his host when Jason went to Pytho to ask for a response
concerning his voyage; for there he welcomed him in his own halls.</p>

<p id="id00094">Next came Zetes and Calais, sons of Boreas, whom once Oreithyia,
daughter of Erechtheus, bare to Boreas on the verge of wintry Thrace;
thither it was that Thracian Boreas snatched her away from Cecropia as
she was whirling in the dance, hard by Ilissus' stream. And, carrying
her far off, to the spot that men called the rock of Sarpedon, near the
river Erginus, he wrapped her in dark clouds and forced her to his will.
There they were making their dusky wings quiver upon their ankles on
both sides as they rose, a great wonder to behold, wings that gleamed
with golden scales: and round their backs from the top of the head and
neck, hither and thither, their dark tresses were being shaken by the
wind.</p>

<p id="id00095">No, nor had Acastus son of mighty Pelias himself any will to stay behind
in the palace of his brave sire, nor Argus, helper of the goddess
Athena; but they too were ready to be numbered in the host.</p>

<p id="id00096">So many then were the helpers who assembled to join the son of Aeson.
All the chiefs the dwellers thereabout called Minyae, for the most and
the bravest avowed that they were sprung from the blood of the daughters
of Minyas; thus Jason himself was the son of Alcimede who was born of
Clymene the daughter of Minyas.</p>

<p id="id00097">Now when all things had been made ready by the thralls, all things that
fully-equipped ships are furnished withal when men's business leads them
to voyage across the sea, then the heroes took their way through the
city to the ship where it lay on the strand that men call Magnesian
Pagasae; and a crowd of people hastening rushed together; but the heroes
shone like gleaming stars among the clouds; and each man as he saw them
speeding along with their armour would say:</p>

<p id="id00098">"King Zeus, what is the purpose of Pelias? Whither is he driving forth
from the Panachaean land so great a host of heroes? On one day they
would waste the palace of Aeetes with baleful fire, should he not yield
them the fleece of his own goodwill. But the path is not to be shunned,
the toil is hard for those who venture."</p>

<p id="id00099">Thus they spake here and there throughout the city; but the women often
raised their hands to the sky in prayer to the immortals to grant a
return, their hearts' desire. And one with tears thus lamented to her
fellow:</p>

<p id="id00100">"Wretched Alcimede, evil has come to thee at last though late, thou hast
not ended with splendour of life. Aeson too, ill-fated man! Surely
better had it been for him, if he were lying beneath the earth enveloped
in his shroud, still unconscious of bitter toils. Would that the dark
wave, when the maiden Helle perished, had overwhelmed Phrixus too with
the ram: but the dire portent even sent forth a human voice, that it
might cause to Alcimede sorrows and countless pains hereafter."</p>

<p id="id00101">Thus the women spake at the departure of the heroes. And now many
thralls, men and women, were gathered together, and his mother, smitten
with grief for Jason. And a bitter pang seized every woman's heart; and
with them groaned the father in baleful old age, lying on his bed,
closely wrapped round. But the hero straightway soothed their pain,
encouraging them, and bade the thralls take up his weapons for war; and
they in silence with downcast looks took them up. And even as the mother
had thrown her arms about her son, so she clung, weeping without stint,
as a maiden all alone weeps, falling fondly on the neck of her hoary
nurse, a maid who has now no others to care for her, but she drags on a
weary life under a stepmother, who maltreats her continually with ever
fresh insults, and as she weeps, her heart within her is bound fast with
misery, nor can she sob forth all the groans that struggle for
utterance; so without stint wept Alcimede straining her son in her arms,
and in her yearning grief spake as follows:</p>

<p id="id00102">"Would that on that day when, wretched woman that I am, I heard King
Pelias proclaim his evil behest, I had straightway given up my life and
forgotten my cares, so that thou thyself, my son, with thine own hands,
mightest have buried me; for that was the only wish left me still to be
fulfilled by thee, all the other rewards for thy nurture have I long
enjoyed. Now I, once so admired among Achaean women, shall be left
behind like a bondwoman in my empty halls, pining away, ill-fated one,
for love of thee, thee on whose account I had aforetime so much splendour
and renown, my only son for whom I loosed my virgin zone first and last.
For to me beyond others the goddess Eileithyia grudged abundant
offspring. Alas for my folly! Not once, not even in my dreams did I
forebode this, that the flight of Phrixus would bring me woe."</p>

<p id="id00103">Thus with moaning she wept, and her handmaidens, standing by, lamented;
but Jason spake gently to her with comforting words:</p>

<p id="id00104">"Do not, I pray thee, mother, store up bitter sorrows overmuch, for thou
wilt not redeem me from evil by tears, but wilt still add grief to
grief. For unseen are the woes that the gods mete out to mortals; be
strong to endure thy share of them though with grief in thy heart; take
courage from the promises of Athena, and from the answers of the gods
(for very favourable oracles has Phoebus given), and then from the help
of the chieftains. But do thou remain here, quiet among thy handmaids,
and be not a bird of ill omen to the ship; and thither my clansmen and
thralls will follow me."</p>

<p id="id00105">He spake, and started forth to leave the house. And as Apollo goes forth
from some fragrant shrine to divine Delos or Claros or Pytho or to broad
Lycia near the stream of Xanthus, in such beauty moved Jason through the
throng of people; and a cry arose as they shouted together. And there
met him aged Iphias, priestess of Artemis guardian of the city, and
kissed his right hand, but she had not strength to say a word, for all
her eagerness, as the crowd rushed on, but she was left there by the
wayside, as the old are left by the young, and he passed on and was gone
afar.</p>

<p id="id00106">Now when he had left the well-built streets of the city he came to the
beach of Pagasae, where his comrades greeted him as they stayed together
near the ship Argo. And he stood at the entering in, and they were
gathered to meet him. And they perceived Acastus and Argus coming from
the city, and they marvelled when they saw them hasting with all speed,
despite the will of Pelias. The one, Argus, son of Arestor, had cast
round his shoulders the hide of a bull reaching to his feet, with the
black hair upon it, the other, a fair mantle of double fold, which his
sister Pelopeia had given him. Still Jason forebore from asking them
about each point but bade all be seated for an assembly. And there, upon
the folded sails and the mast as it lay on the ground, they all took
their seats in order. And among them with goodwill spake Aeson's son:</p>

<p id="id00107">"All the equipment that a ship needs—for all is in due order—lies
ready for our departure. Therefore we will make no long delay in our
sailing for these things' sake, when the breezes but blow fair. But,
friends,—for common to all is our return to Hellas hereafter, and
common to all is our path to the land of Aeetes—now therefore with
ungrudging heart choose the bravest to be our leader, who shall be
careful for everything, to take upon him our quarrels and covenants with
strangers."</p>

<p id="id00108">Thus he spake; and the young heroes turned their eves towards bold
Heracles sitting in their midst, and with one shout they all enjoined
upon him to be their leader; but he, from the place where he sat,
stretched forth his right hand and said:</p>

<p id="id00109">"Let no one offer this honour to me. For I will not consent, and I will
forbid any other to stand up. Let the hero who brought us together,
himself be the leader of the host."</p>

<p id="id00110">Thus he spake with high thoughts, and they assented, as Heracles bade;
and warlike Jason himself rose up, glad at heart, and thus addressed the
eager throng:</p>

<p id="id00111">"If ye entrust your glory to my care, no longer as before let our path
be hindered. Now at last let us propitiate Phoebus with sacrifice and
straightway prepare a feast. And until my thralls come, the overseers of
my steading, whose care it is to choose out oxen from the herd and drive
them hither, we will drag down the ship to the sea, and do ye place all
the tackling within, and draw lots for the benches for rowing. Meantime
let us build upon the beach an altar to Apollo Embasius[1] who by an
oracle promised to point out and show me the paths of the sea, if by
sacrifice to him I should begin my venture for King Pelias."</p>

<p id="id00112">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of embarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00113">He spake, and was the first to turn to the work, and they stood up in
obedience to him; and they heaped their garments, one upon the other, on
a smooth stone, which the sea did not strike with its waves, but the
stormy surge had cleansed it long before. First of all, by the command
of Argus, they strongly girded the ship with a rope well twisted
within,[1] stretching it tight on each side, in order that the planks
might be well compacted by the bolts and might withstand the opposing
force of the surge. And they quickly dug a trench as wide as the space
the ship covered, and at the prow as far into the sea as it would run
when drawn down by their hands. And they ever dug deeper in front of the
stem, and in the furrow laid polished rollers; and inclined the ship
down upon the first rollers, that so she might glide and be borne on by
them. And above, on both sides, reversing the oars, they fastened them
round the thole-pins, so as to project a cubit's space. And the heroes
themselves stood on both sides at the oars in a row, and pushed forward
with chest and hand at once. And then Tiphys leapt on board to urge the
youths to push at the right moment; and calling on them he shouted
loudly; and they at once, leaning with all their strength, with one push
started the ship from her place, and strained with their feet, forcing
her onward; and Pelian Argo followed swiftly; and they on each side
shouted as they rushed on. And then the rollers groaned under the sturdy
keel as they were chafed, and round them rose up a dark smoke owing to
the weight, and she glided into the sea; but the heroes stood there and
kept dragging her back as she sped onward. And round the thole-pins they
fitted the oars, and in the ship they placed the mast and the well-made
sails and the stores.</p>

<p id="id00114">[Footnote 1: Or, reading [Greek: ektothen], "they strongly girded the
ship outside with a well-twisted rope." In either case there is probably
no allusion to [Greek: hupozômata] (ropes for undergirding) which-were
carried loose and only used in stormy weather.]</p>

<p id="id00115">Now when they had carefully paid heed to everything, first they
distributed the benches by lot, two men occupying one seat; but the
middle bench they chose for Heracles and Ancaeus apart from the other
heroes, Ancaeus who dwelt in Tegea. For them alone they left the middle
bench just as it was and not by lot; and with one consent they entrusted
Tiphys with guarding the helm of the well-stemmed ship.</p>

<p id="id00116">Next, piling up shingle near the sea, they raised there an altar on the
shore to Apollo, under the name of Actius[1] and Embasius, and quickly
spread above it logs of dried olive-wood. Meantime the herdsmen of
Aeson's son had driven before them from the herd two steers. These the
younger comrades dragged near the altars, and the others brought lustral
water and barley meal, and Jason prayed, calling on Apollo the god of
his fathers:</p>

<p id="id00117">[Footnote 1: i.e. God of the shore.]</p>

<p id="id00118">"Hear, O King, that dwellest in Pagasae and the city Aesonis, the city
called by my father's name, thou who didst promise me, when I sought thy
oracle at Pytho, to show the fulfilment and goal of my journey, for thou
thyself hast been the cause of my venture; now do thou thyself guide the
ship with my comrades safe and sound, thither and back again to Hellas.
Then in thy honour hereafter we will lay again on thy altar the bright
offerings of bulls—all of us who return; and other gifts in countless
numbers I will bring to Pytho and Ortygia. And now, come, Far-darter,
accept this sacrifice at our hands, which first of all we have offered
thee for this ship on our embarcation; and grant, O King, that with a
prosperous weird I may loose the hawsers, relying on thy counsel, and
may the breeze blow softly with which we shall sail over the sea in fair
weather."</p>

<p id="id00119">He spake, and with his prayer cast the barley meal. And they two girded
themselves to slay the steers, proud Ancaeus and Heracles. The latter
with his club smote one steer mid-head on the brow, and falling in a
heap on the spot, it sank to the ground; and Ancaeus struck the broad
neck of the other with his axe of bronze, and shore through the mighty
sinews; and it fell prone on both its horns. Their comrades quickly
severed the victims' throats, and flayed the hides: they sundered the
joints and carved the flesh, then cut out the sacred thigh bones, and
covering them all together closely with fat burnt them upon cloven wood.
And Aeson's son poured out pure libations, and Idmon rejoiced beholding
the flame as it gleamed on every side from the sacrifice, and the smoke
of it mounting up with good omen in dark spiral columns; and quickly he
spake outright the will of Leto's son:</p>

<p id="id00120">"For you it is the will of heaven and destiny that ye shall return here
with the fleece; but meanwhile both going and returning, countless
trials await you. But it is my lot, by the hateful decree of a god, to
die somewhere afar off on the mainland of Asia. Thus, though I learnt my
fate from evil omens even before now, I have left my fatherland to
embark on the ship, that so after my embarking fair fame may be left me
in my house."</p>

<p id="id00121">Thus he spake; and the youths hearing the divine utterance rejoiced at
their return, but grief seized them for the fate of Idmon. Now at the
hour when the sun passes his noon-tide halt and the ploughlands are just
being shadowed by the rocks, as the sun slopes towards the evening dusk,
at that hour all the heroes spread leaves thickly upon the sand and lay
down in rows in front of the hoary surf-line; and near them were spread
vast stores of viands and sweet wine, which the cupbearers had drawn off
in pitchers; afterwards they told tales one to another in turn, such as
youths often tell when at the feast and the bowl they take delightful
pastime, and insatiable insolence is far away. But here the son of
Aeson, all helpless, was brooding over each event in his mind, like one
oppressed with thought. And Idas noted him and assailed him with loud
voice:</p>

<p id="id00122">"Son of Aeson, what is this plan thou art turning over in mind. Speak
out thy thought in the midst. Does fear come on and master thee, fear,
that confounds cowards? Be witness now my impetuous spear, wherewith in
wars I win renown beyond all others (nor does Zeus aid me so much as my
own spear), that no woe will be fatal, no venture will be unachieved,
while Idas follows, even though a god should oppose thee. Such a
helpmeet am I that thou bringest from Arene."</p>

<p id="id00123">He spake, and holding a brimming goblet in both hands drank off the
unmixed sweet wine; and his lips and dark cheeks were drenched with it;
and all the heroes clamoured together and Idmon spoke out openly:</p>

<p id="id00124">"Vain wretch, thou art devising destruction for thyself before the time.
Does the pure wine cause thy bold heart to swell in thy breast to thy
ruin, and has it set thee on to dishonour the gods? Other words of
comfort there are with which a man might encourage his comrade; but thou
hast spoken with utter recklessness. Such taunts, the tale goes, did the
sons of Aloeus once blurt out against the blessed gods, and thou dost no
wise equal them in valour; nevertheless they were both slain by the
swift arrows of Leto's son, mighty though they were."</p>

<p id="id00125">Thus he spake, and Aphareian Idas laughed out, loud and long, and eyeing
him askance replied with biting words:</p>

<p id="id00126">"Come now, tell me this by thy prophetic art, whether for me too the
gods will bring to pass such doom as thy father promised for the sons of
Aloeus. And bethink thee how thou wilt escape from my hands alive, if
thou art caught making a prophecy vain as the idle wind."</p>

<p id="id00127">Thus in wrath Idas reviled him, and the strife would have gone further
had not their comrades and Aeson's son himself with indignant cry
restrained the contending chiefs; and Orpheus lifted his lyre in his
left hand and made essay to sing.</p>

<p id="id00128">He sang how the earth, the heaven and the sea, once mingled together in
one form, after deadly strife were separated each from other; and how
the stars and the moon and the paths of the sun ever keep their fixed
place in the sky; and how the mountains rose, and how the resounding
rivers with their nymphs came into being and all creeping things. And he
sang how first of all Ophion and Eurynome, daughter of Ocean, held the
sway of snowy Olympus, and how through strength of arm one yielded his
prerogative to Cronos and the other to Rhea, and how they fell into the
waves of Ocean; but the other two meanwhile ruled over the blessed
Titan-gods, while Zeus, still a child and with the thoughts of a child,
dwelt in the Dictaean cave; and the earthborn Cyclopes had not yet armed
him with the bolt, with thunder and lightning; for these things give
renown to Zeus.</p>

<p id="id00129">He ended, and stayed his lyre and divine voice. But though he had ceased
they still bent forward with eagerness all hushed to quiet, with ears
intent on the enchanting strain; such a charm of song had he left behind
in their hearts. Not long after they mixed libations in honour of Zeus,
with pious rites as is customary, and poured them upon the burning
tongues, and bethought them of sleep in the darkness.</p>

<p id="id00130">Now when gleaming dawn with bright eyes beheld the lofty peaks of
Pelion, and the calm headlands were being drenched as the sea was
ruffled by the winds, then Tiphys awoke from sleep; and at once he
roused his comrades to go on board and make ready the oars. And a
strange cry did the harbour of Pagasae utter, yea and Pelian Argo
herself, urging them to set forth. For in her a beam divine had been
laid which Athena had brought from an oak of Dodona and fitted in the
middle of the stem. And the heroes went to the benches one after the
other, as they had previously assigned for each to row in his place, and
took their seats in due order near their fighting gear. In the middle
sat Ancaeus and mighty Heracles, and near him he laid his club, and
beneath his tread the ship's keel sank deep. And now the hawsers were
being slipped and they poured wine on the sea. But Jason with tears held
his eyes away from his fatherland. And just as youths set up a dance in
honour of Phoebus either in Pytho or haply in Ortygia, or by the waters
of Ismenus, and to the sound of the lyre round his altar all together in
time beat the earth with swiftly-moving feet; so they to the sound of
Orpheus' lyre smote with their oars the rushing sea-water, and the surge
broke over the blades; and on this side and on that the dark brine
seethed with foam, boiling terribly through the might of the sturdy
heroes. And their arms shone in the sun like flame as the ship sped on;
and ever their wake gleamed white far behind, like a path seen over a
green plain. On that day all the gods looked down from heaven upon the
ship and the might of the heroes, half-divine, the bravest of men then
sailing the sea; and on the topmost heights the nymphs of Pelion
wondered as they beheld the work of Itonian Athena, and the heroes
themselves wielding the oars. And there came down from the mountain-top
to the sea Chiron, son of Philyra, and where the white surf broke he
dipped his feet, and, often waving with his broad hand, cried out to
them at their departure, "Good speed and a sorrowless home-return!" And
with him his wife, bearing Peleus' son Achilles on her arm, showed the
child to his dear father.</p>

<p id="id00131">Now when they had left the curving shore of the harbour through the
cunning and counsel of prudent Tiphys son of Hagnias, who skilfully
handled the well-polished helm that he might guide them steadfastly,
then at length they set up the tall mast in the mast-box, and secured it
with forestays, drawing them taut on each side, and from it they let
down the sail when they had hauled it to the top-mast. And a breeze came
down piping shrilly; and upon the deck they fastened the ropes
separately round the well-polished pins, and ran quietly past the long
Tisaean headland. And for them the son of Oeagrus touched his lyre and
sang in rhythmical song of Artemis, saviour of ships, child of a
glorious sire, who hath in her keeping those peaks by the sea, and the
land of Iolcos; and the fishes came darting through the deep sea, great
mixed with small, and followed gambolling along the watery paths. And as
when in the track of the shepherd, their master, countless sheep follow
to the fold that have fed to the full of grass, and he goes before gaily
piping a shepherd's strain on his shrill reed; so these fishes followed;
and a chasing breeze ever bore the ship onward.</p>

<p id="id00132">And straightway the misty land of the Pelasgians, rich in cornfields,
sank out of sight, and ever speeding onward they passed the rugged sides
of Pelion; and the Sepian headland sank away, and Sciathus appeared in
the sea, and far off appeared Piresiae and the calm shore of Magnesia on
the mainland and the tomb of Dolops; here then in the evening, as the
wind blew against them, they put to land, and paying honour to him at
nightfall burnt sheep as victims, while the sea was tossed by the swell:
and for two days they lingered on the shore, but on the third day they
put forth the ship, spreading on high the broad sail. And even now men
call that beach Aphetae[1] of Argo.</p>

<p id="id00133">[Footnote 1: i.e. The Starting.]</p>

<p id="id00134">Thence going forward they ran past Meliboea, escaping a stormy beach and
surf-line. And in the morning they saw Homole close at hand leaning on
the sea, and skirted it, and not long after they were about to pass by
the outfall of the river Amyrus. From there they beheld Eurymenae and
the sea-washed ravines of Ossa and Olympus; next they reached the slopes
of Pallene, beyond the headland of Canastra, running all night with the
wind. And at dawn before them as they journeyed rose Athos, the Thracian
mountain, which with its topmost peak overshadows Lemnos, even as far as
Myrine, though it lies as far off as the space that a well-trimmed
merchantship would traverse up to mid-day. For them on that day, till
darkness fell, the breeze blew exceedingly fresh, and the sails of the
ship strained to it. But with the setting of the sun the wind left them,
and it was by the oars that they reached Lemnos, the Sintian isle.</p>

<p id="id00135">Here the whole of the men of the people together had been ruthlessly
slain through the transgressions of the women in the year gone by. For
the men had rejected their lawful wives, loathing them, and had
conceived a fierce passion for captive maids whom they themselves
brought across the sea from their forays in Thrace; for the terrible
wrath of Cypris came upon them, because for a long time they had grudged
her the honours due. O hapless women, and insatiate in jealousy to their
own ruin! Not their husbands alone with the captives did they slay on
account of the marriage-bed, but all the males at the same time, that
they might thereafter pay no retribution for the grim murder. And of all
the women, Hypsipyle alone spared her aged father Thoas, who was king
over the people; and she sent him in a hollow chest to drift over the
sea, if haply he should escape. And fishermen dragged him to shore at
the island of Oenoe, formerly Oenoe, but afterwards called Sicinus from
Sicinus, whom the water-nymph Oenoe bore to Thoas. Now for all the women
to tend kine, to don armour of bronze, and to cleave with the
plough-share the wheat-bearing fields, was easier than the works of
Athena, with which they were busied aforetime. Yet for all that did they
often gaze over the broad sea, in grievous fear against the Thracians'
coming. So when they saw Argo being rowed near the island, straightway
crowding in multitude from the gates of Myrine and clad in their harness
of war, they poured forth to the beach like ravening Thyiades; for they
deemed that the Thracians were come; and with them Hypsipyle, daughter
of Thoas, donned her father's harness. And they streamed down speechless
with dismay; such fear was wafted about them.</p>

<p id="id00136">Meantime from the ship the chiefs had sent Aethalides the swift herald,
to whose care they entrusted their messages and the wand of Hermes, his
sire, who had granted him a memory of all things, that never grew dim;
and not even now, though he has entered the unspeakable whirlpools of
Acheron, has forgetfulness swept over his soul, but its fixed doom is to
be ever changing its abode; at one time to be numbered among the
dwellers beneath the earth, at another to be in the light of the sun
among living men. But why need I tell at length tales of Aethalides? He
at that time persuaded Hypsipyle to receive the new-comers as the day
was waning into darkness; nor yet at dawn did they loose the ship's
hawsers to the breath of the north wind.</p>

<p id="id00137">Now the Lemnian women fared through the city and sat down to the
assembly, for Hypsipyle herself had so bidden. And when they were all
gathered together in one great throng straightway she spake among them
with stirring words:</p>

<p id="id00138">"O friends, come let us grant these men gifts to their hearts' desire,
such as it is fitting that they should take on ship-board, food and
sweet wine, in order that they may steadfastly remain outside our
towers, and may not, passing among us for need's sake, get to know us
all too well, and so an evil report be widely spread; for we have
wrought a terrible deed and in nowise will it be to their liking, should
they learn it. Such is our counsel now, but if any of you can devise a
better plan let her rise, for it was on this account that I summoned you
hither."</p>

<p id="id00139">Thus she spake and sat upon her father's seat of stone, and then rose up
her dear nurse Polyxo, for very age halting upon her withered feet,
bowed over a staff, and she was eager to address them. Near her were
seated four virgins, unwedded, crowned with white hair. And she stood in
the midst of the assembly and from her bent back she feebly raised her
neck and spake thus:</p>

<p id="id00140">"Gifts, as Hypsipyle herself wishes, let us send to the strangers, for
it is better to give them. But for you what device have ye to get profit
of your life if the Thracian host fall upon us, or some other foe, as
often happens among men, even as now this company is come unforeseen?
But if one of the blessed gods should turn this aside yet countless
other woes worse than battle, remain behind, when the aged women die off
and ye younger ones, without children, reach hateful old age. How then
will ye live, hapless ones? Will your oxen of their own accord yoke
themselves for the deep ploughlands and draw the earth-cleaving share
through the fallow, and forthwith, as the year comes round, reap the
harvest? Assuredly, though the fates till now have shunned me in horror,
I deem that in the coming year I shall put on the garment of earth, when
I have received my meed of burial even so as is right, before the evil
days draw near. But I bid you who are younger give good heed to this.
For now at your feet a way of escape lies open, if ye trust to the
strangers the care of your homes and all your stock and your glorious
city."</p>

<p id="id00141">Thus she spake, and the assembly was filled with clamour. For the word
pleased them. And after her straightway Hypsipyle rose up again, and
thus spake in reply.</p>

<p id="id00142">"If this purpose please you all, now will I even send a messenger to the
ship."</p>

<p id="id00143">She spake and addressed Iphinoe close at hand: "Go, Iphinoe, and beg
yonder man, whoever it is that leads this array, to come to our land
that I may tell him a word that pleases the heart of my people, and bid
the men themselves, if they wish, boldly enter the land and the city
with friendly intent."</p>

<p id="id00144">She spake, and dismissed the assembly, and thereafter started to return
home. And so Iphinoe came to the Minyae; and they asked with what intent
she had come among them. And quickly she addressed her questioners with
all speed in these words:</p>

<p id="id00145">"The maiden Hypsipyle daughter of Thoas, sent me on my way here to you,
to summon the captain of your ship, whoever he be, that she may tell him
a word that pleases the heart of the people, and she bids yourselves, if
ye wish it, straightway enter the land and the city with friendly
intent."</p>

<p id="id00146">Thus she spake and the speech of good omen pleased all. And they deemed
that Thoas was dead and that his beloved daughter Hypsipyle was queen,
and quickly they sent Jason on his way and themselves made ready to go.</p>

<p id="id00147">Now he had buckled round his shoulders a purple mantle of double fold,
the work of the Tritonian goddess, which Pallas had given him when she
first laid the keel-props of the ship Argo and taught him how to measure
timbers with the rule. More easily wouldst thou cast thy eyes upon the
sun at its rising than behold that blazing splendour. For indeed in the
middle the fashion thereof was red, but at the ends it was all purple,
and on each margin many separate devices had been skilfully inwoven.</p>

<p id="id00148">In it were the Cyclops seated at their imperishable work, forging a
thunderbolt for King Zeus; by now it was almost finished in its
brightness and still it wanted but one ray, which they were beating out
with their iron hammers as it spurted forth a breath of raging flame.</p>

<p id="id00149">In it too were the twin sons of Antiope, daughter of Asopus, Amphion and
Zethus, and Thebe still ungirt with towers was lying near, whose
foundations they were just then laying in eager haste. Zethus on his
shoulders was lifting the peak of a steep mountain, like a man toiling
hard, and Amphion after him, singing loud and clear on his golden lyre,
moved on, and a rock twice as large followed his footsteps.</p>

<p id="id00150">Next in order had been wrought Cytherea with drooping tresses, wielding
the swift shield of Ares; and from her shoulder to her left arm the
fastening of her tunic was loosed beneath her breast; and opposite in
the shield of bronze her image appeared clear to view as she stood.</p>

<p id="id00151">And in it there was a well-wooded pasturage of oxen; and about the oxen
the Teleboae and the sons of Electryon were fighting; the one party
defending themselves, the others, the Taphian raiders, longing to rob
them; and the dewy meadow was drenched with their blood, and the many
were overmastering the few herdsmen.</p>

<p id="id00152">And therein were fashioned two chariots, racing, and the one in front
Pelops was guiding, as he shook the reins, and with him was Hippodameia
at his side, and in pursuit Myrtilus urged his steeds, and with him
Oenomaus had grasped his couched spear, but fell as the axle swerved and
broke in the nave, while he was eager to pierce the back of Pelops.</p>

<p id="id00153">And in it was wrought Phoebus Apollo, a stripling not yet grown up, in
the act of shooting at mighty Tityos who was boldly dragging his mother
by her veil, Tityos whom glorious Elare bare, but Earth nursed him and
gave him second birth.</p>

<p id="id00154">And in it was Phrixus the Minyan as though he were in very deed
listening to the ram, while it was like one speaking. Beholding them
thou wouldst be silent and wouldst cheat thy soul with the hope of
hearing some wise speech from them, and long wouldst thou gaze with that
hope.</p>

<p id="id00155">Such then were the gifts of the Tritonian goddess Athena. And in his
right hand Jason held a far-darting spear, which Atalanta gave him once
as a gift of hospitality in Maenalus as she met him gladly; for she
eagerly desired to follow on that quest; but he himself of his own
accord prevented the maid, for he feared bitter strife on account of her
love.</p>

<p id="id00156">And he went on his way to the city like to a bright star, which maidens,
pent up in new-built chambers, behold as it rises above their homes, and
through the dark air it charms their eyes with its fair red gleam and
the maid rejoices, love-sick for the youth who is far away amid
strangers, for whom her parents are keeping her to be his bride; like to
that star the hero trod the way to the city. And when they had passed
within the gates and the city, the women of the people surged behind
them, delighting in the stranger, but he with his eyes fixed on the
ground fared straight on, till he reached the glorious palace of
Hypsipyle; and when he appeared the maids opened the folding doors,
fitted with well-fashioned panels. Here Iphinoe leading him quickly
through a fair porch set him upon a shining seat opposite her mistress,
but Hypsipyle turned her eyes aside and a blush covered her maiden
cheeks, yet for all her modesty she addressed him with crafty words:</p>

<p id="id00157">"Stranger, why stay ye so long outside our towers? for the city is not
inhabited by the men, but they, as sojourners, plough the wheat-bearing
fields of the Thracian mainland. And I will tell out truly all our evil
plight, that ye yourselves too may know it well. When my father Thoas
reigned over the citizens, then our folk starting from their homes used
to plunder from their ships the dwellings of the Thracians who live
opposite, and they brought back hither measureless booty and maidens
too. But the counsel of the baneful goddess Cypris was working out its
accomplishment, who brought upon them soul destroying infatuation. For
they hated their lawful wives, and, yielding to their own mad folly,
drove them from their homes; and they took to their beds the captives of
their spear, cruel ones. Long in truth we endured it, if haply again,
though late, they might change their purpose, but ever the bitter woe
grew, twofold. And the lawful children were being dishonoured in their
halls, and a bastard race was rising. And thus unmarried maidens and
widowed mothers too wandered uncared for through the city; no father
heeded his daughter ever so little even though he should see her done to
death before his eyes at the hands of an insolent step-dame, nor did
sons, as before, defend their mother against unseemly outrage; nor did
brothers care at heart for their sister. But in their homes, in the
dance, in the assembly and the banquet all their thought was only for
their captive maidens; until some god put desperate courage in our
hearts no more to receive our lords on their return from Thrace within
our towers so that they might either heed the right or might depart and
begone elsewhither, they and their captives. So they begged of us all
the male children that were left in the city and went back to where even
now they dwell on the snowy tilths of Thrace. Do ye therefore stay and
settle with us; and shouldst them desire to dwell here, and this finds
favour with thee, assuredly thou shalt have the prerogative of my father
Thoas; and I deem that thou wilt not scorn our land at all; for it is
deep-soiled beyond all other islands that lie in the Aegaean sea. But
come now, return to the ship and relate my words to thy comrades, and
stay not outside our city."</p>

<p id="id00158">She spoke, glozing over the murder that had been wrought upon the men;
and Jason addressed her in answer:</p>

<p id="id00159">"Hypsipyle, very dear to our hearts is the help we shall meet with,
which thou grantest to us who need thee. And I will return again to the
city when I have told everything in order due. But let the sovereignty
of the island be thine; it is not in scorn I yield it up, but grievous
trials urge me on."</p>

<p id="id00160">He spake, and touched her right hand; and quickly he turned to go back:
and round him the young maids on every side danced in countless numbers
in their joy till he passed through the gates. And then they came to the
shore in smooth-running wains, bearing with them many gifts, when now he
had related from beginning to end the speech which Hypsipyle had spoken
when she summoned them; and the maids readily led the men back to their
homes for entertainment. For Cypris stirred in them a sweet desire, for
the sake of Hephaestus of many counsels, in order that Lemnos might be
again inhabited by men and not be ruined.</p>

<p id="id00161">Thereupon Aeson's son started to go to the royal home of Hypsipyle; and
the rest went each his way as chance took them, all but Heracles; for he
of his own will was left behind by the ship and a few chosen comrades
with him. And straightway the city rejoiced with dances and banquets,
being filled with the steam of sacrifice; and above all the immortals
they propitiated with songs and sacrifices the illustrious son of Hera
and Cypris herself. And the sailing was ever delayed from one day to
another; and long would they have lingered there, had not Heracles,
gathering together his comrades apart from the women, thus addressed
them with reproachful words:</p>

<p id="id00162">"Wretched men, does the murder of kindred keep us from our native land?
Or is it in want of marriage that we have come hither from thence, in
scorn of our countrywomen? Does it please us to dwell here and plough
the rich soil of Lemnos? No fair renown shall we win by thus tarrying so
long with stranger women; nor will some god seize and give us at our
prayer a fleece that moves of itself. Let us then return each to his
own; but him leave ye to rest all day long in the embrace of Hypsipyle
until he has peopled Lemnos with men-children, and so there come to him
great glory."</p>

<p id="id00163">Thus did he chide the band; but no one dared to meet his eye or to utter
a word in answer. But just as they were in the assembly they made ready
their departure in all haste, and the women came running towards them,
when they knew their intent. And as when bees hum round fair lilies
pouring forth from their hive in the rock, and all around the dewy
meadow rejoices, and they gather the sweet fruit, flitting from one to
another; even so the women eagerly poured forth, clustering round the
men with loud lament, and greeted each one with hands and voice, praying
the blessed gods to grant him a safe return. And so Hypsipyle too
prayed, seizing the hands of Aeson's son, and her tears flowed for the
loss of her lover:</p>

<p id="id00164">"Go, and may heaven bring thee back again with thy comrades unharmed,
bearing to the king the golden fleece, even as thou wilt and thy heart
desireth; and this island and my father's sceptre will be awaiting thee,
if on thy return hereafter thou shouldst choose to come hither again;
and easily couldst thou gather a countless host of men from other
cities. But thou wilt not have this desire, nor do I myself forbode that
so it will be. Still remember Hypsipyle when thou art far away and when
thou hast returned; and leave me some word of bidding, which I will
gladly accomplish, if haply heaven shall grant me to be a mother."</p>

<p id="id00165">And Aeson's son in admiration thus replied: "Hypsipyle, so may all these
things prove propitious by the favour of the blessed gods. But do thou
hold a nobler thought of me, since by the grace of Pelias it is enough
for me to dwell in my native land; may the gods only release me from my
toils. But if it is not my destiny to sail afar and return to the land
of Hellas, and if thou shouldst bear a male child, send him when grown
up to Pelasgian Iolcus, to heal the grief of my father and mother if so
be that he find them still living, in order that, far away from the
king, they may be cared for by their own hearth in their home."</p>

<p id="id00166">He spake, and mounted the ship first of all; and so the rest of the
chiefs followed, and, sitting in order, seized the oars; and Argus
loosed for them the hawsers from under the sea-beaten rock. Whereupon
they mightily smote the water with their long oars, and in the evening
by the injunctions of Orpheus they touched at the island of Electra,[1]
daughter of Atlas, in order that by gentle initiation they might learn
the rites that may not be uttered, and so with greater safety sail over
the chilling sea. Of these I will make no further mention; but I bid
farewell to the island itself and the indwelling deities, to whom belong
those mysteries, which it is not lawful for me to sing.</p>

<p id="id00167">[Footnote 1: Samothrace.]</p>

<p id="id00168">Thence did they row with eagerness over the depths of the black Sea,
having on the one side the land of the Thracians, on the other Imbros on
the south; and as the sun was just setting they reached the foreland of
the Chersonesus. There a strong south wind blew for them; and raising
the sails to the breeze they entered the swift stream of the maiden
daughter of Athamas; and at dawn the sea to the north was left behind
and at night they were coasting inside the Rhoeteian shore, with the
land of Ida on their right. And leaving Dardania they directed their
course to Abydus, and after it they sailed past Percote and the sandy
beach of Abarnis and divine Pityeia. And in that night, as the ship sped
on by sail and oar, they passed right through the Hellespont
dark-gleaming with eddies.</p>

<p id="id00169">There is a lofty island inside the Propontis, a short distance from the
Phrygian mainland with its rich cornfields, sloping to the sea, where an
isthmus in front of the mainland is flooded by the waves, so low does it
lie. And the isthmus has double shores, and they lie beyond the river
Aesepus, and the inhabitants round about call the island the Mount of
Bears. And insolent and fierce men dwell there, Earthborn, a great
marvel to the neighbours to behold; for each one has six mighty hands to
lift up, two from his sturdy shoulders, and four below, fitting close to
his terrible sides. And about the isthmus and the plain the Doliones had
their dwelling, and over them Cyzicus son of Aeneus was king, whom
Aenete the daughter of goodly Eusorus bare. But these men the Earthborn
monsters, fearful though they were, in nowise harried, owing to the
protection of Poseidon; for from him had the Doliones first sprung.
Thither Argo pressed on, driven by the winds of Thrace, and the Fair
haven received her as she sped. There they cast away their small
anchorstone by the advice of Tiphys and left it beneath a fountain, the
fountain of Artacie; and they took another meet for their purpose, a
heavy one; but the first, according to the oracle of the Far-Darter, the
Ionians, sons of Neleus, in after days laid to be a sacred stone, as was
right, in the temple of Jasonian Athena.</p>

<p id="id00170">Now the Doliones and Cyzicus himself all came together to meet them with
friendliness, and when they knew of the quest and their lineage welcomed
them with hospitality, and persuaded them to row further and to fasten
their ship's hawsers at the city harbour. Here they built an altar to
Ecbasian[1] Apollo and set it up on the beach, and gave heed to
sacrifices. And the king of his own bounty gave them sweet wine and
sheep in their need; for he had heard a report that whenever a godlike
band of heroes should come, straightway he should meet it with gentle
words and should have no thought of war. As with Jason, the soft down
was just blooming on his chin, nor yet had it been his lot to rejoice in
children, but still in his palace his wife was untouched by the pangs of
child-birth, the daughter of Percosian Merops, fair-haired Cleite, whom
lately by priceless gifts he had brought from her father's home from the
mainland opposite. But even so he left his chamber and bridal bed and
prepared a banquet among the strangers, casting all fears from his
heart. And they questioned one another in turn. Of them would he learn
the end of their voyage and the injunctions of Pelias; while they
enquired about the cities of the people round and all the gulf of the
wide Propontis; but further he could not tell them for all their desire
to learn. In the morning they climbed mighty Dindymum that they might
themselves behold the various paths of that sea; and they brought their
ship from its former anchorage to the harbour, Chytus; and the path they
trod is named the path of Jason.</p>

<p id="id00171">[Footnote 1: i.e. god of disembarcation.]</p>

<p id="id00172">But the Earthborn men on the other side rushed down from the mountain
and with crags below blocked up the mouth of vast Chytus towards the
sea, like men lying in wait for a wild beast within. But there Heracles
had been left behind with the younger heroes and he quickly bent his
back-springing bow against the monsters and brought them to earth one
after another; and they in their turn raised huge ragged rocks and
hurled them. For these dread monsters too, I ween, the goddess Hera,
bride of Zeus, had nurtured to be a trial for Heracles. And therewithal
came the rest of the martial heroes returning to meet the foe before
they reached the height of outlook, and they fell to the slaughter of
the Earthborn, receiving them with arrows and spears until they slew
them all as they rushed fiercely to battle. And as when woodcutters cast
in rows upon the beach long trees just hewn down by their axes, in order
that, once sodden with brine, they may receive the strong bolts; so
these monsters at the entrance of the foam-fringed harbour lay stretched
one after another, some in heaps bending their heads and breasts into
the salt waves with their limbs spread out above on the land; others
again were resting their heads on the sand of the shore and their feet
in the deep water, both alike a prey to birds and fishes at once.</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:47:31 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:47:31 INFO  - Step 29 - Restart app
2023-03-24 19:47:57 INFO  - Step 30 - Open Books
2023-03-24 19:47:57 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:47:58 INFO  - Step 31 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-24 19:48:18 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:48:38 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-24 19:48:39 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-24 19:48:40 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:48:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:48:45 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:48:46 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:48:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:48:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:48:49 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:49:09 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:49:30 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-24 19:49:30 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@fdc3167
