2023-03-24 19:36:46 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-03-24 19:36:46 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-24 19:37:23 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-24 19:37:23 INFO  - Session id - adbd6f0f112d853e6d64bc1ef36be6cac7feac22
2023-03-24 19:37:23 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-03-24 19:37:23 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:26 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:37:27 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-03-24 19:37:27 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:27 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:37:28 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-03-24 19:37:28 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:30 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:37:30 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-24 19:37:32 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:32 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-24 19:37:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:37 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-24 19:37:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:38 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:39 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:37:40 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-03-24 19:37:40 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-24 19:38:11 INFO  - bookName: The Cold War Wilderness of Mirrors Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 19:38:11 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-03-24 19:38:11 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:38:11 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-03-24 19:38:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:38:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-24 19:38:16 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:38:23 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:38:24 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-24 19:38:45 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:38:45 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-03-24 19:38:45 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:39:06 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-03-24 19:39:26 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:39:28 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-24 19:39:28 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-4
2023-03-24 19:39:28 INFO  - randomBookName: The Hidden
2023-03-24 19:39:28 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 19:39:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Hidden'
2023-03-24 19:39:31 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 19:39:35 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 19:39:36 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:39:36 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:39:42 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 19:39:43 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:39:43 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:39:44 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:39:45 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:39:45 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-24 19:39:45 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-24 19:40:06 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 19:40:07 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:08 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-03-24 19:40:08 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:09 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:40:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:09 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:40:10 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:40:10 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch1" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch1"><span aria-label="1" id="pg_1" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">1</h1>
</header>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph">
<p class="PEP"><i>She steals to the window, and looks at the sand,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And over the sand at the sea;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And her eyes are set in a stare;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there breaks a sigh,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there drops a tear,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>From a sorrow-clouded eye,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And a heart sorrow-laden,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>A long, long sigh;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>For the cold strange eyes of a little Mermaiden</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And the gleam of her golden hair.</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="FMEPC">—Matthew Arnold, “The Forsaken Merman,”1849</p>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Leonie</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">L<small>EONIE PRESSES HER</small> </span>palm to the outside of the shop window. The glass is cold; the fat little star of her hand leaves an imprint in condensation when she pulls it away. She laughs and slaps her hand back on the window, stamping another and another, a bit like when she does potato printing at the kitchen table, the potatoes soon left aside in favor of dipping her hands straight in the <span aria-label="2" id="pg_2" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>paints. She concentrates on tracing the outlines of the handprints with a fingertip, before they fade away.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma,” she says. “Come look. Me do painting.”</p>
<p class="TX">Behind her, a handbag stands abandoned on the pavement. She turns around, toddles over, picks up the bag. She looks up and down the street, her whole body turning first one way, then the other. There is no one else there. The chill wind blows in her face, tightening the skin on her cheeks and almost toppling her, almost taking her pink bobble hat from her head. Two bobbles; like a teddy bear’s ears.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie is still, wearing a small frown. Then, she upends the handbag onto the slabs. Nappies and wipes fall out, nappy bags are whisked up the street by the wind. There is a coin purse, a collection of receipts, a bunch of keys attached to a smooth pebble with a hole in it. Picking up the pebble, she shakes the bunch so that they rattle, then drops the lot back on the ground. A fruit bar, half finished and wound into its torn wrapper is what she reaches for next. She has it in her mouth when she hears the bell on the shop. The heavy door creaks as it opens, spilling yellow light and warmth onto her fingers, now almost blue with cold, that peep out beyond the cuffs of her coat.</p>
<p class="TX">Though it isn’t late, it’s nearly dark; the shortest day of the year. The girl toddles toward the shop’s light, toward the Christmas tree just inside, past the stranger at the door who has stepped aside to let her in, who is saying, “Where’s your mummy?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie reaches for a bauble, a shiny thing, sparkling. There’s a chocolate bell too, and she drops the fruit bar to take it in her hand.</p>
<p class="TX">“Whose child is this?” calls the stranger as the man from behind the counter comes forward, rubbing his hands together, his eyes wide with concern.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?” says Leonie to the shopkeeper, recognizing nothing but the worry in his expression. Her bottom lip wobbles in uncertainty. Then, her grip on the foil-covered decoration is lost, and it hits the floor tiles, smashing into pieces that scatter from the wrapping as it splits. There is stillness as she looks at all the bits in turn, her face registering surprise. This, seemingly, is the <span aria-label="3" id="pg_3" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>most upsetting thing. She shuts her eyes to cry, face to the ceiling, fists clenched, mouth open and revealing eight perfect teeth.</p>
<p class="TX">The customer crouches, hovering his hand near the toddler, saying, “Shh, it’s okay, don’t worry. We’ll find Mamma.”</p>
<p class="TX">Both of the adults expect a loud noise and brace themselves for it. But when the cry comes, it is a faint, keening whisper, like distant wind. The child’s face is posed in a scream, but there is barely a sound.</p>
<p class="TX">The two men exchange a glance, agreeing that something is wrong, but at this moment there are bigger problems than the strangeness of this cry. The customer starts to pat the toddler on the shoulder, the pads of his fingers barely making contact, and all the time he’s glancing around, talking to the shopkeeper, saying, “Did you see who she was with?” Leonie opens her eyes and screams silently into his face. The soundlessness of it makes it worse somehow than if the scream were deafening. The man stands, snatches another chocolate decoration from a branch and gently takes one of the child’s trembling fists in his hand. He unpeels the small fingers, places the confection on her upturned palm. Her mouth shuts, and she inspects the red Santa figure, turning it over, searching for how to open it. She hiccups once. Snot runs down her chin.</p>
<p class="TX">The bell on the door rings as the shopkeeper yanks it open. He steps outside and looks both ways, then up at the darkening sky and finally down, at the handbag spilling its contents. He walks forward, nudges the pile of nappies with a toe, notes the keys, the packet of wipes. He’s looking for a phone, or a wallet with something like ID in it, but there’s nothing. The coin purse contains only cash. He picks up the empty handbag, weighs it in his hand. He finds a pocket at the front and unzips it. Inside is what he thinks is a rock but on closer inspection is a seashell.</p>
<p class="TX">One or two snowflakes swirl in the wind, landing on the concrete and making wet speckles. In the distance, the seals call to each other across the waves, making a sound like human screams, but other than a slight jerk to the head, the man doesn’t react. If you live here it’s a familiar sound, the seal song, like that of the waves and the gulls.</p>
<p class="TX">The sea sighs as the tide licks the shore, sucking the surface of the beach into new shapes: gentle, curving undulations, different <span aria-label="4" id="pg_4" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>from yesterday’s, that will be different tomorrow and with every tide that turns.</p>
<p class="TX">Just out of sight, a small pile of clothes, buried in haste in the sand, is covered up by the advancing water. Gentle eddies loosen the folds of the fabric, so that a parka slowly unfurls like a flower opening in the darkness. Soon the sea will probe further, uncovering the heel of one boot. Later, the clothes will be completely removed from their rudimentary hiding place by the many strong hands of the currents. Later still they will be scattered on seven different shores. The other boot will remain here, wedging itself between two rocks, unseen by anyone until the litter pickers come in the spring.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:40:10 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:40:10 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-03-24 19:40:34 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-03-24 19:40:34 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:35 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-24 19:40:51 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:51 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:40:52 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:52 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:40:52 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:53 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:55 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:55 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:40:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:40:56 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch1" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch1"><span aria-label="1" id="pg_1" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">1</h1>
</header>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph">
<p class="PEP"><i>She steals to the window, and looks at the sand,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And over the sand at the sea;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And her eyes are set in a stare;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there breaks a sigh,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there drops a tear,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>From a sorrow-clouded eye,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And a heart sorrow-laden,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>A long, long sigh;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>For the cold strange eyes of a little Mermaiden</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And the gleam of her golden hair.</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="FMEPC">—Matthew Arnold, “The Forsaken Merman,”1849</p>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Leonie</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">L<small>EONIE PRESSES HER</small> </span>palm to the outside of the shop window. The glass is cold; the fat little star of her hand leaves an imprint in condensation when she pulls it away. She laughs and slaps her hand back on the window, stamping another and another, a bit like when she does potato printing at the kitchen table, the potatoes soon left aside in favor of dipping her hands straight in the <span aria-label="2" id="pg_2" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>paints. She concentrates on tracing the outlines of the handprints with a fingertip, before they fade away.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma,” she says. “Come look. Me do painting.”</p>
<p class="TX">Behind her, a handbag stands abandoned on the pavement. She turns around, toddles over, picks up the bag. She looks up and down the street, her whole body turning first one way, then the other. There is no one else there. The chill wind blows in her face, tightening the skin on her cheeks and almost toppling her, almost taking her pink bobble hat from her head. Two bobbles; like a teddy bear’s ears.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie is still, wearing a small frown. Then, she upends the handbag onto the slabs. Nappies and wipes fall out, nappy bags are whisked up the street by the wind. There is a coin purse, a collection of receipts, a bunch of keys attached to a smooth pebble with a hole in it. Picking up the pebble, she shakes the bunch so that they rattle, then drops the lot back on the ground. A fruit bar, half finished and wound into its torn wrapper is what she reaches for next. She has it in her mouth when she hears the bell on the shop. The heavy door creaks as it opens, spilling yellow light and warmth onto her fingers, now almost blue with cold, that peep out beyond the cuffs of her coat.</p>
<p class="TX">Though it isn’t late, it’s nearly dark; the shortest day of the year. The girl toddles toward the shop’s light, toward the Christmas tree just inside, past the stranger at the door who has stepped aside to let her in, who is saying, “Where’s your mummy?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie reaches for a bauble, a shiny thing, sparkling. There’s a chocolate bell too, and she drops the fruit bar to take it in her hand.</p>
<p class="TX">“Whose child is this?” calls the stranger as the man from behind the counter comes forward, rubbing his hands together, his eyes wide with concern.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?” says Leonie to the shopkeeper, recognizing nothing but the worry in his expression. Her bottom lip wobbles in uncertainty. Then, her grip on the foil-covered decoration is lost, and it hits the floor tiles, smashing into pieces that scatter from the wrapping as it splits. There is stillness as she looks at all the bits in turn, her face registering surprise. This, seemingly, is the <span aria-label="3" id="pg_3" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>most upsetting thing. She shuts her eyes to cry, face to the ceiling, fists clenched, mouth open and revealing eight perfect teeth.</p>
<p class="TX">The customer crouches, hovering his hand near the toddler, saying, “Shh, it’s okay, don’t worry. We’ll find Mamma.”</p>
<p class="TX">Both of the adults expect a loud noise and brace themselves for it. But when the cry comes, it is a faint, keening whisper, like distant wind. The child’s face is posed in a scream, but there is barely a sound.</p>
<p class="TX">The two men exchange a glance, agreeing that something is wrong, but at this moment there are bigger problems than the strangeness of this cry. The customer starts to pat the toddler on the shoulder, the pads of his fingers barely making contact, and all the time he’s glancing around, talking to the shopkeeper, saying, “Did you see who she was with?” Leonie opens her eyes and screams silently into his face. The soundlessness of it makes it worse somehow than if the scream were deafening. The man stands, snatches another chocolate decoration from a branch and gently takes one of the child’s trembling fists in his hand. He unpeels the small fingers, places the confection on her upturned palm. Her mouth shuts, and she inspects the red Santa figure, turning it over, searching for how to open it. She hiccups once. Snot runs down her chin.</p>
<p class="TX">The bell on the door rings as the shopkeeper yanks it open. He steps outside and looks both ways, then up at the darkening sky and finally down, at the handbag spilling its contents. He walks forward, nudges the pile of nappies with a toe, notes the keys, the packet of wipes. He’s looking for a phone, or a wallet with something like ID in it, but there’s nothing. The coin purse contains only cash. He picks up the empty handbag, weighs it in his hand. He finds a pocket at the front and unzips it. Inside is what he thinks is a rock but on closer inspection is a seashell.</p>
<p class="TX">One or two snowflakes swirl in the wind, landing on the concrete and making wet speckles. In the distance, the seals call to each other across the waves, making a sound like human screams, but other than a slight jerk to the head, the man doesn’t react. If you live here it’s a familiar sound, the seal song, like that of the waves and the gulls.</p>
<p class="TX">The sea sighs as the tide licks the shore, sucking the surface of the beach into new shapes: gentle, curving undulations, different <span aria-label="4" id="pg_4" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>from yesterday’s, that will be different tomorrow and with every tide that turns.</p>
<p class="TX">Just out of sight, a small pile of clothes, buried in haste in the sand, is covered up by the advancing water. Gentle eddies loosen the folds of the fabric, so that a parka slowly unfurls like a flower opening in the darkness. Soon the sea will probe further, uncovering the heel of one boot. Later, the clothes will be completely removed from their rudimentary hiding place by the many strong hands of the currents. Later still they will be scattered on seven different shores. The other boot will remain here, wedging itself between two rocks, unseen by anyone until the litter pickers come in the spring.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:40:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:40:56 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-24 19:40:57 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:57 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 19:40:58 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:40:59 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-24 19:40:59 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:40:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:41:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:41:00 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch1" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch1"><span aria-label="1" id="pg_1" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">1</h1>
</header>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph">
<p class="PEP"><i>She steals to the window, and looks at the sand,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And over the sand at the sea;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And her eyes are set in a stare;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there breaks a sigh,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there drops a tear,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>From a sorrow-clouded eye,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And a heart sorrow-laden,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>A long, long sigh;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>For the cold strange eyes of a little Mermaiden</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And the gleam of her golden hair.</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="FMEPC">—Matthew Arnold, “The Forsaken Merman,”1849</p>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Leonie</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">L<small>EONIE PRESSES HER</small> </span>palm to the outside of the shop window. The glass is cold; the fat little star of her hand leaves an imprint in condensation when she pulls it away. She laughs and slaps her hand back on the window, stamping another and another, a bit like when she does potato printing at the kitchen table, the potatoes soon left aside in favor of dipping her hands straight in the <span aria-label="2" id="pg_2" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>paints. She concentrates on tracing the outlines of the handprints with a fingertip, before they fade away.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma,” she says. “Come look. Me do painting.”</p>
<p class="TX">Behind her, a handbag stands abandoned on the pavement. She turns around, toddles over, picks up the bag. She looks up and down the street, her whole body turning first one way, then the other. There is no one else there. The chill wind blows in her face, tightening the skin on her cheeks and almost toppling her, almost taking her pink bobble hat from her head. Two bobbles; like a teddy bear’s ears.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie is still, wearing a small frown. Then, she upends the handbag onto the slabs. Nappies and wipes fall out, nappy bags are whisked up the street by the wind. There is a coin purse, a collection of receipts, a bunch of keys attached to a smooth pebble with a hole in it. Picking up the pebble, she shakes the bunch so that they rattle, then drops the lot back on the ground. A fruit bar, half finished and wound into its torn wrapper is what she reaches for next. She has it in her mouth when she hears the bell on the shop. The heavy door creaks as it opens, spilling yellow light and warmth onto her fingers, now almost blue with cold, that peep out beyond the cuffs of her coat.</p>
<p class="TX">Though it isn’t late, it’s nearly dark; the shortest day of the year. The girl toddles toward the shop’s light, toward the Christmas tree just inside, past the stranger at the door who has stepped aside to let her in, who is saying, “Where’s your mummy?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie reaches for a bauble, a shiny thing, sparkling. There’s a chocolate bell too, and she drops the fruit bar to take it in her hand.</p>
<p class="TX">“Whose child is this?” calls the stranger as the man from behind the counter comes forward, rubbing his hands together, his eyes wide with concern.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?” says Leonie to the shopkeeper, recognizing nothing but the worry in his expression. Her bottom lip wobbles in uncertainty. Then, her grip on the foil-covered decoration is lost, and it hits the floor tiles, smashing into pieces that scatter from the wrapping as it splits. There is stillness as she looks at all the bits in turn, her face registering surprise. This, seemingly, is the <span aria-label="3" id="pg_3" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>most upsetting thing. She shuts her eyes to cry, face to the ceiling, fists clenched, mouth open and revealing eight perfect teeth.</p>
<p class="TX">The customer crouches, hovering his hand near the toddler, saying, “Shh, it’s okay, don’t worry. We’ll find Mamma.”</p>
<p class="TX">Both of the adults expect a loud noise and brace themselves for it. But when the cry comes, it is a faint, keening whisper, like distant wind. The child’s face is posed in a scream, but there is barely a sound.</p>
<p class="TX">The two men exchange a glance, agreeing that something is wrong, but at this moment there are bigger problems than the strangeness of this cry. The customer starts to pat the toddler on the shoulder, the pads of his fingers barely making contact, and all the time he’s glancing around, talking to the shopkeeper, saying, “Did you see who she was with?” Leonie opens her eyes and screams silently into his face. The soundlessness of it makes it worse somehow than if the scream were deafening. The man stands, snatches another chocolate decoration from a branch and gently takes one of the child’s trembling fists in his hand. He unpeels the small fingers, places the confection on her upturned palm. Her mouth shuts, and she inspects the red Santa figure, turning it over, searching for how to open it. She hiccups once. Snot runs down her chin.</p>
<p class="TX">The bell on the door rings as the shopkeeper yanks it open. He steps outside and looks both ways, then up at the darkening sky and finally down, at the handbag spilling its contents. He walks forward, nudges the pile of nappies with a toe, notes the keys, the packet of wipes. He’s looking for a phone, or a wallet with something like ID in it, but there’s nothing. The coin purse contains only cash. He picks up the empty handbag, weighs it in his hand. He finds a pocket at the front and unzips it. Inside is what he thinks is a rock but on closer inspection is a seashell.</p>
<p class="TX">One or two snowflakes swirl in the wind, landing on the concrete and making wet speckles. In the distance, the seals call to each other across the waves, making a sound like human screams, but other than a slight jerk to the head, the man doesn’t react. If you live here it’s a familiar sound, the seal song, like that of the waves and the gulls.</p>
<p class="TX">The sea sighs as the tide licks the shore, sucking the surface of the beach into new shapes: gentle, curving undulations, different <span aria-label="4" id="pg_4" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>from yesterday’s, that will be different tomorrow and with every tide that turns.</p>
<p class="TX">Just out of sight, a small pile of clothes, buried in haste in the sand, is covered up by the advancing water. Gentle eddies loosen the folds of the fabric, so that a parka slowly unfurls like a flower opening in the darkness. Soon the sea will probe further, uncovering the heel of one boot. Later, the clothes will be completely removed from their rudimentary hiding place by the many strong hands of the currents. Later still they will be scattered on seven different shores. The other boot will remain here, wedging itself between two rocks, unseen by anyone until the litter pickers come in the spring.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:41:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:41:01 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 19:41:02 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:02 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-03-24 19:41:02 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:03 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-03-24 19:41:03 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 19:41:03 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 19:41:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:41:04 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch1" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch1"><span aria-label="1" id="pg_1" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">1</h1>
</header>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph">
<p class="PEP"><i>She steals to the window, and looks at the sand,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And over the sand at the sea;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And her eyes are set in a stare;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there breaks a sigh,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And anon there drops a tear,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>From a sorrow-clouded eye,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And a heart sorrow-laden,</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>A long, long sigh;</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>For the cold strange eyes of a little Mermaiden</i></p>
<p class="PEP"><i>And the gleam of her golden hair.</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="FMEPC">—Matthew Arnold, “The Forsaken Merman,”1849</p>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Leonie</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">L<small>EONIE PRESSES HER</small> </span>palm to the outside of the shop window. The glass is cold; the fat little star of her hand leaves an imprint in condensation when she pulls it away. She laughs and slaps her hand back on the window, stamping another and another, a bit like when she does potato printing at the kitchen table, the potatoes soon left aside in favor of dipping her hands straight in the <span aria-label="2" id="pg_2" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>paints. She concentrates on tracing the outlines of the handprints with a fingertip, before they fade away.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma,” she says. “Come look. Me do painting.”</p>
<p class="TX">Behind her, a handbag stands abandoned on the pavement. She turns around, toddles over, picks up the bag. She looks up and down the street, her whole body turning first one way, then the other. There is no one else there. The chill wind blows in her face, tightening the skin on her cheeks and almost toppling her, almost taking her pink bobble hat from her head. Two bobbles; like a teddy bear’s ears.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie is still, wearing a small frown. Then, she upends the handbag onto the slabs. Nappies and wipes fall out, nappy bags are whisked up the street by the wind. There is a coin purse, a collection of receipts, a bunch of keys attached to a smooth pebble with a hole in it. Picking up the pebble, she shakes the bunch so that they rattle, then drops the lot back on the ground. A fruit bar, half finished and wound into its torn wrapper is what she reaches for next. She has it in her mouth when she hears the bell on the shop. The heavy door creaks as it opens, spilling yellow light and warmth onto her fingers, now almost blue with cold, that peep out beyond the cuffs of her coat.</p>
<p class="TX">Though it isn’t late, it’s nearly dark; the shortest day of the year. The girl toddles toward the shop’s light, toward the Christmas tree just inside, past the stranger at the door who has stepped aside to let her in, who is saying, “Where’s your mummy?”</p>
<p class="TX">Leonie reaches for a bauble, a shiny thing, sparkling. There’s a chocolate bell too, and she drops the fruit bar to take it in her hand.</p>
<p class="TX">“Whose child is this?” calls the stranger as the man from behind the counter comes forward, rubbing his hands together, his eyes wide with concern.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mamma?” says Leonie to the shopkeeper, recognizing nothing but the worry in his expression. Her bottom lip wobbles in uncertainty. Then, her grip on the foil-covered decoration is lost, and it hits the floor tiles, smashing into pieces that scatter from the wrapping as it splits. There is stillness as she looks at all the bits in turn, her face registering surprise. This, seemingly, is the <span aria-label="3" id="pg_3" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>most upsetting thing. She shuts her eyes to cry, face to the ceiling, fists clenched, mouth open and revealing eight perfect teeth.</p>
<p class="TX">The customer crouches, hovering his hand near the toddler, saying, “Shh, it’s okay, don’t worry. We’ll find Mamma.”</p>
<p class="TX">Both of the adults expect a loud noise and brace themselves for it. But when the cry comes, it is a faint, keening whisper, like distant wind. The child’s face is posed in a scream, but there is barely a sound.</p>
<p class="TX">The two men exchange a glance, agreeing that something is wrong, but at this moment there are bigger problems than the strangeness of this cry. The customer starts to pat the toddler on the shoulder, the pads of his fingers barely making contact, and all the time he’s glancing around, talking to the shopkeeper, saying, “Did you see who she was with?” Leonie opens her eyes and screams silently into his face. The soundlessness of it makes it worse somehow than if the scream were deafening. The man stands, snatches another chocolate decoration from a branch and gently takes one of the child’s trembling fists in his hand. He unpeels the small fingers, places the confection on her upturned palm. Her mouth shuts, and she inspects the red Santa figure, turning it over, searching for how to open it. She hiccups once. Snot runs down her chin.</p>
<p class="TX">The bell on the door rings as the shopkeeper yanks it open. He steps outside and looks both ways, then up at the darkening sky and finally down, at the handbag spilling its contents. He walks forward, nudges the pile of nappies with a toe, notes the keys, the packet of wipes. He’s looking for a phone, or a wallet with something like ID in it, but there’s nothing. The coin purse contains only cash. He picks up the empty handbag, weighs it in his hand. He finds a pocket at the front and unzips it. Inside is what he thinks is a rock but on closer inspection is a seashell.</p>
<p class="TX">One or two snowflakes swirl in the wind, landing on the concrete and making wet speckles. In the distance, the seals call to each other across the waves, making a sound like human screams, but other than a slight jerk to the head, the man doesn’t react. If you live here it’s a familiar sound, the seal song, like that of the waves and the gulls.</p>
<p class="TX">The sea sighs as the tide licks the shore, sucking the surface of the beach into new shapes: gentle, curving undulations, different <span aria-label="4" id="pg_4" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>from yesterday’s, that will be different tomorrow and with every tide that turns.</p>
<p class="TX">Just out of sight, a small pile of clothes, buried in haste in the sand, is covered up by the advancing water. Gentle eddies loosen the folds of the fabric, so that a parka slowly unfurls like a flower opening in the darkness. Soon the sea will probe further, uncovering the heel of one boot. Later, the clothes will be completely removed from their rudimentary hiding place by the many strong hands of the currents. Later still they will be scattered on seven different shores. The other boot will remain here, wedging itself between two rocks, unseen by anyone until the litter pickers come in the spring.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 19:41:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 19:41:04 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-24 19:41:05 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-24 19:41:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:10 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:11 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:41:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:41:13 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:41:34 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 19:41:49 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-24 19:41:49 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@fdc3167
