2023-03-24 19:58:56 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-03-24 19:58:56 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-24 19:59:44 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-24 19:59:44 INFO  - Session id - 95eb23363ca9ff8be5b8f578dfa2ce1ac9d89bce
2023-03-24 19:59:44 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-03-24 19:59:44 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:47 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:59:47 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-03-24 19:59:47 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:48 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-03-24 19:59:49 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-03-24 19:59:49 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 19:59:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-24 19:59:52 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:53 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-24 19:59:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:54 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:55 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:57 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-24 19:59:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:58 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:59 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 19:59:59 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:00:00 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-03-24 20:00:00 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-24 20:00:34 INFO  - bookName: The Cold War Wilderness of Mirrors Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-24 20:00:34 INFO  - bookName: Down the Hatch Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-03-24 20:00:34 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 2
2023-03-24 20:00:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 20:00:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-03-24 20:00:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-24 20:00:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-24 20:00:38 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:01:10 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:01:11 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-24 20:01:32 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:01:32 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-03-24 20:01:33 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:01:53 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-03-24 20:02:14 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:02:15 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-24 20:02:15 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-24 20:02:15 INFO  - randomBookName: The French Army in the Great War
2023-03-24 20:02:15 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 20:02:16 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The French Army in the Great War'
2023-03-24 20:02:18 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-24 20:02:22 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 20:02:23 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:02:23 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:03:35 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-24 20:03:36 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:03:36 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:03:37 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-24 20:03:37 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:03:38 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-24 20:03:38 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-24 20:03:57 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-03-24 20:03:58 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:03:59 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-03-24 20:03:59 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:03:59 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-24 20:04:00 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-24 20:04:00 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-24 20:04:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 20:04:01 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.625); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The French Army in the Great War</title>
<link href="../style/9781473887268.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page6"></a>
<h2 class="chap-title">Background</h2>
<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">T</span>he evolution of the army that fought in 1914 began in 1868 after the unsuccessful campaign in Mexico on behalf of the Emperor Maximilian. Before that, the army had fought successfully for almost thirty years, in North Africa, the Crimea and northern Italy. The failed Mexican campaign, coupled with the knowledge that the Prussian army numbered around 1,200,000 men (including reserve), meant not only a restructuring but also an increase in manpower was necessary. As a result, although opposed by both the Right and the Left political wings, compulsory military service was introduced. Senior officers favoured a professional army undiluted by conscripts, and the future draftees, mostly factory and farm workers, objected to being forced to join the army.</p>
<p class="indent">This was all too late to prevent defeat during the Franco-Prussian war. By this time the army had increased in number from 288,000 to 393,000, but many were spread across Mexico, Algeria and Rome. After reserves had been called up it amounted to 567,000, but this was still less than half the strength of the combined German states. The disparity in numbers was made worse by a defective mobilisation process in which men were often called up to units some distance away. After a long journey the men would arrive to find their units had mobilised without them.</p>
<p class="indent">In Paris, left without a government (which had moved to Bordeaux during the fighting), the National Guard and a provisional municipal government – known as the Commune – took over. With the return of the French government to Versailles, fighting broke out between released prisoners of war and the Communards. Little quarter was given during the fighting; vicious savagery besmirched Paris, the City of Light. It is estimated that government forces killed between 20,000 and 25,000 men and women.</p>
<p class="indent">With the suppression of the Commune, the rebuilding of the army began. Defeat brought the realisation that a stronger army was necessary to fight Germany again, either to repel further invasion or regain the lost provinces. The army became more popular with the middle and upper classes, while the working classes accepted their military obligation.</p>
<p class="indent">Many young and ambitious officers feared that if they served abroad they would miss the next war, and would be at a disadvantage when war did start. However, those who had done colonial service where they were engaged on active service had not only gained valuable fighting experience, but also won decorations and distinction.?</p>
<a id="page7"></a>
<p class="indent">This resurgence in popularity was short lived. Two sensational affairs involving the army did considerable damage to its status. The first involved Général Boulanger, who, having appeared to be on the point of leading a right-wing coup, fled to Brussels and there committed suicide on his mistress’s grave.</p>
<p class="indent">More damaging still was the Dreyfus affair. This, a conspiracy against an innocent Jewish artillery officer, ‘caused a great revulsion of feeling against the army when the truth became known’. The revulsion destroyed the perpetrators and also many who had no connection with the conspiracy, shattering public confidence in the army. However, despite an anti-militarist spirit amongst intellectuals, and leaders of the Left, the strengthening of the army continued.</p>
<p class="indent">These affairs had a profound effect on the officer corps. The number of applicants for officer training at Saint-Cyr dropped and many career artillery and engineer officers resigned. The absence of quality applicants was soon felt in the<span class="italic">École supérieure de la guerre,</span>which supplied men for the general staff, and this undermined the quality of the officer corps in the early years of the twentieth century.</p>
<p class="indent">Nevertheless, efforts were made to increase manpower. By 1893 this had been achieved: the French and German armies were almost at comparable strengths. Initially it was envisaged that the army would be used to defend France along specific lines and at fortifications at Épinal, Toul and Verdun. However, by 1889 it was decided that, when war came, the army would go over to the offensive, leading to attacks on Metz and Strasbourg – Plan 10.</p>
<p class="indent">When it was discovered that the German birth rate was growing quicker than the French, an alliance with Russia was formed to further boost the number of men who would be available to fight the Germans, and ‘national service was fixed at three years for all’. For some reason national service was cut to two years in 1905, reverting to three years only in 1913. This last ‘change gave France more men under arms in peace-time than Germany’ although Germany was more populous.</p>
<p class="indent">Changing the length of service had an unintended consequence: a lack of quality NCOs. Many of the best were commissioned – before the war half the officers had come from the ranks – others found administrative positions. Others not so able left after fifteen years’ service to become minor civil servants. Although two years’ national service was sufficient time to train a soldier, the third year had given them time to develop into NCOs. As a result, the army’s tactical efficiency was reduced.</p>
<p class="indent">Added to the Metropolitan troops were those from the colonies, a further 90,000 men, both European and native, many known for their picturesque uniforms. Included among the colonial troops were the men of the Foreign Legion, volunteers from around the world and troops from Africa and Indochina. At the start of the war ‘there were twenty-one battalions of Senegalese in Northern and Western Africa, as well as ten battalions of Malagasies and one of Somalis; two regiments of Congolese in Equatorial Africa; and five Indochinese Regiments.’ Five battalions of Senegalese <a id="page8"></a>troops in North Africa were sent to France at the beginning of hostilities. Many other new Senegalese battalions were raised for overseas service during the war. Most of the Indochinese and Malagasy troops served at depots, although some did see combat. ‘In all, the empire produced 600,000 soldiers for the war effort and sent 184,000 workers to French industry.’</p>
<p class="indent">The use and employment of these colonial men was governed by racial stereo-typing. ‘Indochinese troops, though intelligent, were assigned almost exclusively to armaments and aviation factories; the Hovas of Madagascar were sent to the ambulance corps, but also to the artillery; North African and Senegalese infantry were thrown into almost all of the major offensives, but even Mangin (a colonial soldier) divided his black troops into “warrior races” – those from the savannah – and the rest, who were employed as workers or replacements.’ There was an element of mistrust. While North Africans fought in their own regiments, black troops fought as battalions interspersed with white troops until the final offensives of 1918.</p>
<p class="indent">With the outbreak of war, foreign volunteers for the French army were placed in the Foreign Legion. Heavy losses and the return of men to their own armies forced a reorganisation of the four wartime regiments into the<span class="italic">Régiment de Marche de la Légion Étrangère,</span>a unit that won many laurels. German and Austrian volunteers were retained for action in Morocco and the Sahara.</p>
<p class="indent">During a period of considerable military innovation, senior French officers came to the conclusion that the next war would be won by the development of the offensive spirit. They believed that the French soldier ‘lacked the ability to stand on the defensive under a prolonged storm of fire’.<span class="italic">Attaque à outrance</span>– to excess – became the official doctrine. Jerram, in<span class="italic">The Armies of the World,</span>wrote in 1899 that ‘Drills, manoeuvres and military instruction generally are founded on the principle that the offensive alone permits of decisive results.’ This was to lead to the deaths of thousands during the battles of the frontiers in August 1914. With an attack being met with massed rifle and machine gun fire, a soldier was summed up as having ‘two chances of life and one of being killed’ with virtually no chance of surviving without a wound.</p>
<p class="indent">By 1900 the strength of the army ‘totalled 27,450 officers and 517,000 men. The war establishment, which included the reserve of the active army, the territorial army and its reserve, could call upon approximately 4,660,000 men of all ranks, of whom about 500,000 were untrained.’ To maintain this level of manpower, service was compulsory between the ages of 25 and 45, with three years in the active army, ten in the army reserve, ‘and six years each in the territorial army and reserve’. The war strength of the active army reserve was approximately 1,300,000 men while the territorials had a total strength of 2,270,000. Their role was primarily static defence at fortified positions and on lines of communication. The main fighting was to be done by the active army and its reserves.</p>
<a id="page9"></a>
<p class="indent">The yearly intake of men, around 230,000 plus volunteers, was dealt with on a district basis, with France being divided into eighteen military districts. Algeria comprised an overseas district, the 19th. Each district comprised a recruiting depot and mobilisation cadres which were allocated to an army corps of the same number as the district. In turn each corps comprised two divisions and a brigade of cavalry. By 1914 there were twenty-four districts and corps.</p>
<p class="indent">Infantry in the active army was organised into eighteen regional regiments, with thirty battalions of<span class="italic">chasseurs à pied</span>and four regiments of light infantry, with 145 sub-divisional regiments, each of four battalions. Further battalions were provided by the <span class="italic">Infanterie Légère d’Afrique,</span>whose personnel ‘were either men released from military prisons awaiting the end of their engagement, or petty criminals convicted in France. Discipline in these units was at least as tough as in the Foreign Legion.</p>
<p class="indent">There were eighty-nine regiments of cavalry: thirteen Cuirassiers, thirty-one Dragoons, twenty-one Chasseurs, fourteen Hussars, six<span class="italic">Chasseurs d’Afrique,</span>and four Spahi – light cavalry recruited from the native population of Algeria. Each regiment consisted of five squadrons, four active and one reserve and, at war establishment, consisted of five officers and 155 other ranks. The artillery was formed into forty field and horse regiments grouped into nineteen brigades of two regiments with two unassigned. Each brigade was attached to an army corps with one regiment assigned to the corps, the other to divisional use. ‘There were also a further eighteen fortress artillery battalions’ plus mountain artillery and independent<span class="italic">groupes</span>in Africa.</p>
<p class="indent">The structure of the territorial army was similar, with ‘145 infantry regiments, seven battalions of<span class="italic">chasseurs à pied,</span>ten battalions of Zouaves, 150 squadrons of cavalry, nineteen regiments of artillery, and eighteen battalions of engineers.’</p>
<p class="indent">Active service units were closely supported, as in every army, by a range of other personnel. ‘The Administration embraced not only clerks and General Staff, but also supply troops and medical orderlies.’ Traffic was controlled in rear areas by<span class="italic">Commissions Régulatrices Automobiles;</span>movement of materials was under the<span class="italic">Train des equipages,</span>and the<span class="italic">Service Automobile,</span>formed from the<span class="italic">Train,</span>provided drivers for staff cars and trucks. ‘The<span class="italic">Service de Santé</span>was the medical branch, and consisted in one of two specialities – doctors or chemists (orderlies and stretcher bearers were provided by the Administration branch or by individual units).’</p>
<p class="indent">As the war progressed, trench mortars were formed and manned by artillerymen, and in late 1916 a tank arm was formed as part of the artillery. ‘Towards the end of the war, a number of French army units were formed from prisoners of war and from volunteers transferred from the<span class="italic">Legion Étrangère,</span>and these went on to form the nucleus of the armies of independent Czechoslovakia and Poland.’</p>
<p class="indent">Although the<span class="italic">Service Aéronatique</span>was formed in 1903 as an engineer unit, by 1912 it had become a separate organisation. Although still within the army, it is outside the remit of this book which will concentrate purely on the land-based forces.</p>
<a id="page10"></a>
<p class="indent">At the start of the war, therefore, France could field an army comparable to Germany but only in the short-term. As a nation, she could only produce 60 per cent of the potential manpower of Germany. Although this could be partially addressed by the use of colonial forces, that solution raised political and military difficulties. While colonial troops proved effective in the attack and during good weather, many were not up to the demands of trench warfare in the cold of northern France and were unsuited to the static nature of the war after November 1914. This did not stop their employment in the Dardanelles or on the Western Front until mid-1917. ‘During the Nivelle offensive of 1917, their casualty rates were catastrophic – two or three times that of white units – and not surprisingly, some of the black units broke and ran. After this, most of the black troops were withdrawn from the front lines and the high command dropped any ideas of further large-scale use.’</p>
<p class="indent">Alone among the major powers, France had not adopted any form of camouflaged uniform for use in Europe, in contrast to some colonial troops who were wearing khaki-coloured clothing. The red trousers were little different from those worn eighty years earlier, as was the képi, and the dark blue tunic too added to the high visibility of the French soldier. At the start of the war a new uniform was on trial: a light blue – horizon blue – cloth (that provided no camouflage) was selected and went into production at the end of August 1914. It was some time before complete uniforms were to be available. As a stop-gap, dark-blue over-trousers were issued from October 1914, which were worn on their own when the weather was warm. Some infantry were issued with fire brigade blue trousers; others received corduroy in brown or dark blue. Eventually uniformity was achieved, with the only distinguishing feature being the collar patches and trouser piping. The uniformity was only among Metropolitan troops; units from overseas were generally wearing a shade of khaki from 1916. Some colonial regiments had arrived in a yellower version of khaki which they continued to wear. The képi, although it continued to be worn by most officers, was replaced by a side cap.</p>
<p class="indent">A steel helmet was authorised in early 1915 and officially adopted on 21 May. By 23 December 1915, over 3 million Adrian helmets had been produced, all identical except for the metal badge on the front. Initially painted in horizon blue, their colour was later changed to khaki.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-24 20:04:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-24 20:04:01 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-03-24 20:04:26 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-03-24 20:04:26 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:04:26 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-24 20:04:47 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:07 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-24 20:05:08 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-24 20:05:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:14 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:15 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:16 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:05:16 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:05:17 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-24 20:05:37 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-24 20:05:49 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-24 20:05:49 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@fdc3167
