2023-08-03 08:17:20 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-03 08:17:20 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-03 08:18:35 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-03 08:18:35 INFO  - Session id - 08a8ce0b9a90a3a86d9a3f867fa680050bdbd81f
2023-08-03 08:18:35 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-03 08:18:35 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:38 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-03 08:18:39 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-03 08:18:39 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:40 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-03 08:18:41 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-03 08:18:41 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 08:18:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-03 08:18:49 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:50 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-03 08:18:50 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:52 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:53 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:56 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-03 08:18:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:18:59 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:19:01 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:19:02 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-08-03 08:19:02 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - bookName: The House in the Cerulean Sea Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - bookName: Anna Karenina Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 08:19:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-08-03 08:19:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 08:19:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-03 08:19:09 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:19:17 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:19:18 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-03 08:19:40 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:19:41 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-03 08:19:41 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:20:04 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-03 08:20:24 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:20:27 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-03 08:20:27 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-08-03 08:20:27 INFO  - randomBookName: The Wellington Bomber
2023-08-03 08:20:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-03 08:20:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Wellington Bomber'
2023-08-03 08:20:32 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-03 08:20:36 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-03 08:20:38 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:20:39 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:20:51 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-03 08:20:53 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:20:54 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:20:56 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-03 08:20:57 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:20:59 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-03 08:20:59 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-03 08:21:31 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-03 08:21:32 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:33 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-03 08:21:33 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:34 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-03 08:21:35 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-03 08:21:35 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-03 08:21:37 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-03 08:21:37 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Voices In Flight: The Wellington Bomber</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="Introduction">
<p class="fm-title2"><a id="page_7"></a>Introduction</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>My heart is heavy, its throbbing pulsation soon to sink into the quiet of death. My skin is already torn, soon to express the symmetrical form of my skeleton, to expose it to the elements which will render it back into the fabric of the earth. Soon I shall be forgotten, both by those who had my welfare at heart and by those who feared my very existence. The moon is high, the night sky a canvas of blue; beneath me the earth is like a patchwork quilt of many colours. I am a Wellington, a crippled aircraft alone in the sky with no human pilot at my controls, no navigator at my chart table and no sound from my radio. My guns are now mere symbolic sentinels of defence. No sensitive fingers will nurse my descent into that watery grave that I know lies ahead; my last hour is now at hand, and I face it alone. An air lock in my fuel lines cut both my engines simultaneously and caused my crew to abandon me, as I twisted and convulsed, before I was able to regain the circulation of my life fluid. The automatic pilot had been engaged and my throttle set at cruising speed, so that when my engines started again I was able to level out and fly on - alone. My heart is broken, for they lost faith. From the first day of my working life I have been dependable, and no airman has ever lost his life or been injured by my inefficiency. I have survived over a hundred return journeys from Hell’s suburbs, and always they had faith in me … until tonight. My controls move slowly and methodically, the stick making deliberate and precise movements as if held by unseen hands. I am tangible proof of man’s skill and ingenuity, proof of his conquest of the air, but at the same time useless without the guidance of my creators. I shall be mentioned on the news bulletin in the morning, as one of our aircraft that failed to return. If only they could learn the truth, that here in a moonlit sky a lonely lady is trying to reach the shores of England, if only to prove that she did get back. I am losing height at the rate of one thousand feet per minute, and my altimeter is slowly moving back. A slight vibration has started throughout my geodetic fuselage; one of my engines needs synchronising. These are the first presentiments of the end, my course becoming more and more erratic as the off-beat motor pulls me against the automatic pilot</i>.</p>
<p class="para"><i>I’m well across the Channel now. The moon’s reflection in the water is accompanied by the shadow of a big bird in a futile migration. As I see the coast of England I have less than a hundred feet of space beneath me, and white-topped waves appear like sharks’ mouths awaiting their prey. It seems bitterly strange to me, that my end should be like this. Tonight I should have proved all that my scientific machinery was capable of achieving, but at the time when it was needed most, my crew had shown no faith. As my flying sped drops to a stall my tailfin and rudder still retain their graceful dignity, even after the first impact with the water which rips open my belly. My engines are silent now. In a few seconds the hissing of salt water against red hot metal will cease, and I shall sink to my final resting place</i>.</p>
<p class="right"><b><i>Lonely Lady</i> by D.A. Dugard, writing in <i>Intercom; The Official Quarterly Magazine of the Aircrew Association</i>, autumn 1983.</b></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_8"></a>It was in March 1911 that the name of Vickers first became associated with heavier-than-air craft when an aviation department was formed in Vickers’ plant at Erith in Kent. By 1919 Vickers had consolidated its aircraft production solely at Weybridge and the design office was moved there from Imperial Court, Knightsbridge, where it had been since 1916. In the twenties the company built a single-engined civil transport and an amphibian aeroplane and biplane bombers and troop carrying aircraft for the RAF. In 1928 Vickers and Armstrong Whitworth merged into a new company called Vickers-Armstrongs Ltd and Supermarine Aviation Company of Southampton was also acquired. Four years’ earlier, in 1924, Vickers had established the Airship Guarantee Company and Mr. Barnes Neville Wallis became its Chief Engineer. After World War I Wallis felt that governmental attitudes to aviation left little scope for his advanced ideas for aircraft capable of establishing long-range routes and he had turned his back temporarily on aviation matters. On his return to the fold he was entrusted with the design of the airship which became known as the R100, in which he utilised for the first time the principle of geodetic construction. This form of lightweight, robust and seemingly-complex lattice structure was capable of withstanding severe punishment without its structural integrity being destroyed. At various times between 1908 and 1929 Vickers had produced a number of large airships for the Government, the last being the R100. This was intended for an experimental air service between the UK and the Commonwealth countries but it was scrapped following the crash of the R101 in October 1930.</p>
<p class="para">Dr. (later Sir Barnes) Wallis had first come to prominence in aviation in 1913, when, in conjunction with H. B. Pratt he designed Britain’s second rigid airship, the R9, which was completed by Vickers in 1917. Wallis was painstaking and academic in his approach to aeronautical design and whenever possible, he tested his ideas before passing the final design for construction. In January 1930, when design work on the R100 had already been completed, Wallis joined Vickers’ aeroplane division at Weybridge as chief engineer (structures) and evolved a novel geodetic aeroplane structure which was inspired by the wire-netting envelopes containing the balloons, or gasbags of the R100. In his new lattice-like construction system, loads were transferred from member to member by the shortest distance, or as near to it as external configuration would allow, on a criss-cross route and it led to a considerable advance in weight/strength characteristics with a fabric-covered aeroplane. After experiments with a geodetic wing for the Viastra, Wallis used geodetic construction for the first time in a heavier than air aircraft, when it was incorporated in the Type 253 single-engined biplane built by Vickers to meet a 1931 Air Ministry specification for a general-purpose aeroplane. Then, in a private-venture Vickers went further and designed a low-wing monoplane of high aspect-ratio to the same Air Ministry specification but with Wallis’s system applied to the entire airframe. This machine first flew in June 1935 and the improvement in performance was such that the Air Ministry ordered this two-seat monoplane bomber, subsequently named the Wellesley, in place of the biplane. A total of 176 Wellesleys was built. The Wellesley demonstrated clearly the excellent weight/strength ratio of such structures when, in November 1938, two specially-prepared Wellesleys flew from Ismailia, Egypt to Darwin, Australia, non-stop in just over 48 hours and setting a new world long-distance record of <a id="page_9"></a>7,157.7 miles. Wellesleys entered service with Bomber Command in the spring of 1937. The 2,000lb bomb load was carried in streamlined nacelles to avoid breaking up the internal geodetic pattern of the fuselage. The bomb stowage problem would be overcome in 1936 in Vickers’ next geodetic-structure type to appear, a medium bomber conforming to the Air Ministry specification B9/32.</p>
<p class="para">On 20 October 1932 the Air Ministry had invited Vickers, Bristol, Gloster and Handley Page to submit a design study for an experimental twin-engined day bomber capable of carrying a bomb load of 1,000lb for 720 miles and with a range of 1,500 miles. Handley Page offered the unorthodox HP 52 Hampden which, with its sleek, long tapered boom and twin tail might have been considered unconventional for its day. At Vickers Rex Pierson and his design team applied all that was best in a succession of previous company models and the ingenious and immensely strong geodetic framework devised and developed by Barnes Wallis.</p>
<p class="para">A comparison of the respective performance details of the Bristol Pegasus IS2 or IIS2 and the Armstrong Siddeley Tiger engines was settled in favour of the Pegasus for the air-cooled engined version of the bomber. For the liquid-cooled engined variant of the basic project, the Rolls-Royce Goshawk I was selected. These two versions were submitted in tender designs on 28 February 1933. In September the Air Ministry placed a pilot contract for a bomber with Goshawk engines. By this time the revised specification included front, rear and midships gun mountings with wind protection. The proposed aeroplane was also altered from a high to a mid-wing configuration, to give a better view to pilots flying in formation, which modification also improved the aerodynamic characteristics. The revised specification also called for the modification of bomb undershields and the incorporation of spring-loaded bomb doors. The oil system was also revised and permission to raise the tare weight to 6,798lb was requested. This increased weight was accepted in principle, so the detail design proceeded while the ancillary installations became progressively more complicated, as a result of production and operational requirements. The fixed weight penalty became apparent and by June 1934, the Air Ministry had cancelled the prohibitive upper weight limit of 6,500lb.</p>
<p class="para">In March 1933 R. K. Pierson envisaged that the Type 271 should employ a high wing monoplane design with a fixed undercarriage and be powered by either two Bristol Mercury VIS2 or the Rolls-Royce Goshawk evaporatively-cooled power-plants. By October he had come down in favour of a retractable undercarriage and he proposed using geodetic construction throughout the aircraft because the geodetic latticework construction had reached such a stage by late 1933 that it could be incorporated in the airframes of large aircraft. The Vickers proposal was accepted and in December 1933 the Air Ministry placed an order for a single prototype Type 271 with Goshawk engines, which proved to be one of the few Rolls-Royce failures. In August 1934 Vickers submitted proposals for using the more powerful Bristol Pegasus or Perseus air-cooled engine in place of the Goshawk, which promised considerable improvement in speed, climb, ceiling and ability to fly on one engine, without a correspondingly serious increase in all-up weight. It was also hoped that the delivery date of the first aircraft could be brought forward. The Air Ministry quickly accepted these proposals and took the <a id="page_10"></a>opportunity to increase the fuel load to provide a range of 1,500 miles at 213 mph at 15,000 feet. The Pegasus engines were to be fitted with variable pitch propellers and following wind tunnel tests conducted by Vickers, their own nose and tail turrets were also accepted. The loaded weight by this time was increasing rapidly and another design study using Rolls-Royce Merlin engines was carried out for the Air Ministry at an all-up weight of 17,850lb.</p>
<p class="para">The prototype finally made its maiden flight at Brooklands on 15 June 1936 with Vickers chief test pilot Captain J. ‘Mutt’ Summers at the controls, accompanied by Barnes Wallis and Trevor Westbrook. It was powered with two conventional air-cooled 915hp Bristol Pegasus X engines which gave a speed of 250 mph at 8,000 feet at an all-up weight of 21,000lb. The span of the aeroplane was 85 feet 10 inches and the length 60 feet 6 inches. Fitted with a Vickers-Supermarine Stranraer-type fin and rudder to save on design time, the model bore scant resemblance to later models. Both front and rear gun turrets were glazed over with Plexiglas and no armament was carried. A crew of four was provided for, with allowances for one supernumerary for special duties. The bomb load was nine 500lb bombs or nine of 250lb for long range operations. Nose and tail gun stations were fitted for single guns in each. These ‘cupolas’ were hand-operated, but there was provision for a third gun with a retractable shield to be mounted in a dorsal position half-way along the fuselage. The B.9/32 was successful during a series of trials and was exhibited in the New Types Park at the annual RAF display at Hendon on 27 June. The new aircraft enthralled the RAF and public alike and the former were particularly impressed with its ability to carry double the bomb load and cover twice the range (3,000 miles) to that originally specified. In August the Air Ministry placed an initial production order for 180 of the Vickers Type 271. Vickers suggested the name ‘Crecy’ but the more famous name of Wellington was later adopted, on 8 September.</p>
<p class="para">On 29 January 1937 Specification 29/36 was issued to cover the first production run of 185 Wellington Is. This specification could be described as an interim measure to provide as quickly as possible the aircraft required for the rapidly expanding Royal Air Force. The production Wellington I was a complete redesign and went hand in hand with the detail design of the larger and heavier B.1/35 (Warwick) twin-engined bomber. As a result, large portions of the two aeroplanes were common to one another, an engineering operation made easier by the singular features of the geodetic structure with its special member-forming machinery. This parallel detail design suited the Wellington admirably, for a deeper fuselage emerged which nicely accommodated the larger bomb load required with associated equipment. It also provided better disposition for the regular aircrew who were increased in number to five. The nose was lengthened to accommodate the revised gun turret and bomb aimer’s position. A redesigned horizontal tail unit of high aspect ratio saw the deletion of the horn balances of the B.9/32. Constant speed propellers and a retractable tail wheel were fitted and the Air Ministry requested the replacement of the Vickers ventral turret mid ships with one of Frazer-Nash design. This was heavier than the Vickers type and Pierson produced data showing that the aeroplane C of G position with this alternative turret was extremely critical so the F-N turret was fitted to the first production aircraft only, compensating by ballast to obtain the required flying <a id="page_11"></a>characteristics during handling trials. On 19 April while undergoing Service tests the prototype crashed at Waldringfield, 1½ miles east of the A&amp;AEE station at Martlesham Heath, during diving trials. Excessive load caused the failure of the horn balance and the aircraft turned on to its back. The pilot was thrown through the roof of the cockpit and escaped by parachute but the flight engineer was killed in the crash.</p>
<p class="para">The first production Type 285 Wellington B Mk I had revised fuselage and tail surfaces and flew for the first time from Brooklands on 23 December 1937. Power was provided by Pegasus XVIIIs but subsequent production Wellington Is were powered by 1,000hp Pegasus XVIII engines. (The Mark II was to be fitted with Rolls-Royce Merlin Xs and the Mark III with Bristol Hercules IIIs). Vickers power-operated nose and tail turrets and a Nash and Thompson ventral retractable and revolving turret mid-ships were all armed with two 0.303 inch Browning guns with 600 rounds of ammunition for the front turret and for 1,000 rounds for each of the mid and rear turrets. The tail-wheel was retractable and the bomb bay was enlarged. Elongated side windows were built in the fuselage, which was increased in length. Wingspan was also extended slightly and the crew positions increased from four to five members.</p>
<p class="para">On 10 October 1938 99 Squadron became the first in Bomber Command to receive the Wellington I. In 1939 production of 189 examples of the Type 408 B.IA began. Both Vickers turrets were replaced by Nash and Thompson and each was equipped with two .303 inch machine-guns (as was the existing ventral position). Various other improvements were made and the crew complement was increased to six. A Mk.IA (P2516) was converted at the end of 1939 to carry a large electrically energised hoop of 48 feet diameter as an enemy magnetic mine destroyer and the type, known as Directional Wireless Installation (DWI) was successfully used for this duty in British coastal waters and later in Mediterranean harbours and the Suez Canal. British scientists had devised two methods of neutralization. A passive method of neutralizing the mines lay in equipping ships with degaussing gear to nullify the magnetic attraction of the ship’s steel hull; ironically Professor Gauss was a German. An aggressive method of dealing with the mines was to destroy them by triggering their detonator by creating a magnetic field. Vickers was approached to modify a number of Wellingtons to carry equipment consisting of generators with which to create an electro-magnetic field generated from an aluminium coil encased inside a cumbersome circular 51 foot diameter balsa wood structure outside the aircraft. The balsa casing was constructed in sections and the assembly minus the aluminium coil was slung under a Wellington Mk IA (P2516) for flight testing.</p>
<p class="para">After the flight characteristics tests proved satisfactory the aluminium strip coil was inserted. The nose and tail turrets were removed and faired into smooth conical positions, later some aircraft carried glazed tail positions. To save weight the interiors were generally stripped of all unnecessary equipment. The aluminium strip coils were initially powered with a Ford V8 engine driving 35kw Maudsley generators. Three more Wellington Mk 1As were modified straight off the Vickers Weybridge production line and conversion work on eleven additional Mk Is was carried out at Croydon with Rollasons performing airframe adaptation and English Electric producing the coils. The lighter, but more powerful Gypsy <a id="page_12"></a>Six motor driving a 95kw generator were installed in the Wellington DWI Mk II. The Gypsy’s 95kw output generated a much greater magnetic field while saving over 1,000lbs of weight. Tests carried out on the magnetic section of a de-fused German mine located in the middle of the experimental airfield at Boscombe Down provided encouraging results but tidal depth affected the degree of magnetic field which could be directed at the mine. Another critical factor in searching out and destroying a mine was the height at which the aircraft could safely descend without the risk of being damaged by the mine’s detonation. Initial operational flights were conducted at around 60 feet but 35 feet became the minimum altitude. The speed of the aircraft had to be slow enough that the magnetic field did not peak for too short a period of time to detonate the mine, but fast enough that detonation of a mine did not damage the aircraft. Also, the angle of incidence of the magnetic ring had to be co-ordinated with the trim of the aircraft in order to bring to bear the most effective electro-magnetic field on a mine. The first aerial detonation of a mine was achieved on 8 January 1940. A mine had been detonated by the specialist vessel Borde, but the ship was badly damaged in the process and the task of mine detonation was left to the Wellingtons of 1 GRU.</p>
<p class="para">The second aerial success was recorded five days later on 13 January, but on this occasion the aircraft descended below 35 feet, the hatches were blown off and the accelerometer recorded ten Gs. The aircraft was grounded and checked by Vickers engineers for structural damage but none was found. Due to the presence of the DWI gear normal compasses were thought to be completely inoperable and recourse was to the use of the standard air-driven Gyro Direction Indicator (GDI). The GDI had to be set using a stretch of straight railway track laid out in the vicinity of the Manston base from which operations were conducted. Subsequently, P4 compasses were located in the aircraft tail well away from structural influences, doing away with dependence on the fallible GDI. After operations began a directional switch was installed which allowed a reversal of the direction of the coil’s electrical current from the normal North-seeking thrust to South-seeking in order to detonate mines whose magnetism was so set. The two trial DWI Wellingtons (P2518 and P2521) carried out initial sweeps and were soon joined by the first Gypsy Six equipped Wellington DWI Mk.II (L4356) and plans were put into effect for a series of combined aircraft sweeps to increase the magnetic field. The rate of mine destruction was steady rather than spectacular and the inclusion of Wellington DWI Mk.IIs within the force was of definite advantage. In April a second GRU unit was formed and based at Bircham Newton in Norfolk. The operation of the generators produced heat discomfort for the actual operator, but the provision of air ducts did considerably reduce the temperature. Ducts were also used in cooling the smaller 48 foot diameter ring of the DWI Mk II. Since DWI aircraft were defenseless a fighter was assigned to protect, them with the Blenheims of 600 Squadron drawing the duty, however, in the event no recorded attack by the Luftwaffe was made. The enemy was advancing through the Low Countries and France in its successful May offensive. One of the Wellington DWI Mk Is (L4374) was detached on 20 May to the Middle East where its use after the Italian entry into the War was to lead to the conversion of several Mk IAs and a single Mk IC to DWI aircraft for sweeping duties around the Suez Canal. Parts were sent out from Britain for the conversions. Ironically, as the British <a id="page_13"></a>advanced across the desert during 1942/43 DWI Wellingtons were used to sweep North African ports of not only German mines, but also of British mines!</p>
<p class="para">The Type 409 IB did not enter production but the first of 2,685 Type 415 B.IC Pegasus XVIII powered versions began entering squadron service before the outbreak of war. Its airframe and systems in general formed the basis for later Marks. By now however, bombing by day had given way to night bombing only. Bitter experience revealed that the Vickers turrets had insufficient traverse, the ‘dustbin’ ventral turret was useless against beam attacks from above and self-sealing fuel tanks were essential.<sup><a id="ft1" href="#fn1">1</a></sup> In September 1940 Wellington production was at the rate of 134 a month and by the spring of 1941 was more than double this figure.</p>
<p class="para">The B.IC was easily distinguishable by the addition of a pair of Vickers K machine-guns, installed to fire from each side of the fuselage, in place of the earlier ventral position; and the addition of larger main wheels which protruded from the engine nacelle when retracted. However, some problems remained. The Wellington IC required tremendous forward pressure on the control column to bring the nose down when going round again with flaps down. A characteristic of the Wellington was to drop its nose during turns.</p>
<p class="para">The design of the Wellington II was begun in January 1938. Because of a delay in the production of the Merlin X, the prototype (L4250) finally flew on 3 March 1939. Armament was provided by Frazer-Nash turrets. By the end of the year the performance of the Mark II was superior to that of the IC. The Type 299 B.Mk.III prototype, with 1,400hp Bristol Hercules III engines-plants, flew for the first time on 16 May 1939. Both types entered production the following year as the Type 406 B.Mk.II and the Type 417 Mk III respectively and began service with Bomber Command in 1941. A total of 400 Mk.II Wellingtons was built and these were followed by 1,519 Mk.III models. A Mk.IC fitted with a pair of Pratt and Whitney R1830-S3C4-G Twin-Wasps was re-designated Type 410 to become the Mk IV prototype. A total of 220 production models were built. To increase Wellington production, Vickers established a new factory at Chester and later, another factory was producing the type at Squires Gate, Blackpool. Wellingtons were being produced at the rate of 134 a month in September 1940. By the spring of 1941 this had grown to more than double this figure.</p>
<p class="para">A civil version of the Wellington was prepared as a design study for Mr. Nigel Norman of Airwork in May 1939 and in September of that year, two representatives of British Airways (the pre-war airline eventually merged with Imperial Airways to form BOAC) visited Weybridge to discuss a civil version for use on the West African route, with the possibility of an extension across the South Atlantic. Another study was submitted to the Air Ministry for a transport version, providing for a maximum of 13 troops without a navigator or, alternatively, 11 troops with a navigator. At that time the New Zealand Government was re-equipping its Air Force and ordered 18 Wellingtons.</p>
<p class="para">Much has been made of the relative strength of the Wellington airframe but there were several accidents caused by outer mainplanes breaking away. During May 1942 Vickers co-operated with RAE Farnborough in an effort to improve the design of the main spar, which was prone to fatigue cracks. Eric Day, who was mostly involved with the Wellington Mk III at 91 Group Servicing Unit, recalls:</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page_14"></a>‘In August 1943 we were suddenly posted to RAF Hemswell, Lines, which was temporarily closed while runways were being laid. 91 GSU were to be put into a unit of about 300 to work in groups of about seven men under a Corporal and supervised overall by civilians from Vickers on a big new mod, P1303, because of metal fatigue causing cracks in the main spar at the root of the main-plane where they joined the inner plane in the nacelle. All Wellingtons were to be checked, each OTU sending one aircraft and bringing back another when collecting the former. The procedure was as follows: with a Coles’ crane in attendance the wings were removed. The aircraft was jacked up and the main wheels removed. A hefty beam of timber was bolted on to the oleos where the wheels had been, then the nacelle, complete with engine and propeller, was removed and stood aside, using a specially fabricated tubular metal tripod, which took the weight behind the propeller at the point of the engine reduction gear casing. The whole assembly would stand quite safely until rebuilding began. Imagine the amount of work involved in all this as everything had to be disconnected; flying controls, hydraulic, pneumatic, turret hydraulic, fuel pipes, etc, etc. Incidentally, when rebuilding it was sometimes extremely difficult to get all these items to line up and many four letter words were uttered. With the aircraft now lying around in very large pieces the Vickers men could examine the root end fixtures of main and inner planes using sophisticated optics and if anything appeared suspect, the wing would be written off and a brand new one fitted. A continuous supply of these was being delivered by the famous sixty feet long ‘Queen Mary’ vehicles.</p>
<p class="para">‘In many cases nothing sinister appeared. The main-spar was reinforced with a sleeve and taper pins. Wellington main-spars were based on tubular booms and were not box sectioned as on orthodox aircraft. After modification the aircraft was re-assembled and pushed out of the hangar six days later. The completed aircraft had to be thoroughly test flown. There was no telling how it would fly with its existing ailerons built into a new port or starboard wing, for example. The entire flying characteristics would be altered. We had Reception and Despatch flights for this purpose and from these the test flying was done. I went on quite a few test flights. We could only take off and land in one direction because of the runway construction. When major adjustments had to be made an aircraft would be test flown a second or even a third time. The entire P1303 job took the best part of a year to complete and this included a move to Upper Heyford when Hemswell became operational for Lancasters.</p>
<p class="para">‘When the Wellington was correctly rigged and in a stable flying condition it was a delightful aircraft. The control surfaces were actuated by push-pull rods which ran through roller guides at various stations in their travel. This gave a smooth and positive control, unlike the old method of using 15cwt steel cable running through fairleads and tensioned by turn-buckles. Of course, the Wellington was something of an oddity, or an in-between, coming as it did between the old Heyfords, Harrows and Hendons and the later, modern Lancasters and Halifaxes. The geodetic build was wonderful for lightness, strength and flexibility but the fabric covering was on a par with aircraft of World War I. There can be no doubt that stressed skin, monocoque construction, had to prevail for the new generation of aircraft. Nevertheless, the Wellington earned the laurels which it richly deserved. Viewed from the ground when in flight, a Wellington <a id="page_15"></a>looked superb. The high aspect ratio wings gave it a graceful appearance. It was so adaptable it could be made to do almost anything, except tow a glider (for fear of stretching the fuselage like lazy tongs).’</p>
<p class="para">The Wellington was often called the ‘flying mod’. The most weird and wonderful mod of all had to be the high-altitude version. Late in 1939 Vickers produced two high-altitude prototypes in response to Air Ministry specification B.23/39, which called for the development of a high-altitude conversion of the Wellington. The specification stipulated that the type had to be capable of attaining an altitude of 40,000 feet, i.e., to put it out of reach of enemy flak and fighters. Both prototypes had a special cigar shaped fuselage with a pressurized cabin in the nose to simulate conditions at 10,000 feet. Originally, it was planned to fit two 1,650hp Bristol Hercules VIII engines but production difficulties dictated the use of the Hercules III power-plant.</p>
<p class="para">The first of the two Mk.V prototypes (R3298) made its maiden flight in September 1940 and achieved a height of 30,000 feet. Only one Mk.V model (the second off the production lines) was completed and nineteen more were finished to Mk VI standard. Meanwhile, the first production aircraft was re-designed the Mk.VI prototype and as such, fitted with two 1,600 hp Rolls-Royce Merlin 60 RM6SM engines. In April 1941 this engine was bench tested with a two-stage supercharger. Without such a device, the Wellington had no chance of reaching the prescribed 40,000 feet.</p>
<p class="para">On 19 August 1941 a further 100 VIs were ordered, although 56 were later cancelled. The majority of the survivors became VIs equipped with ‘Gee’ navigational systems. Late in March 1942 109 Squadron at Tempsford received four Wellington VIs - W5801, W5802, DR481 and DR285 - for commencement of trials with the ‘Oboe’ radar blind bombing device. Geoffrey MacFarlane, a wireless operator and 109 Squadron’s first Signals Leader, flew with Squadron Leader Hal Bufton in W5801 on its first squadron air test on 30 March. He recalls:</p>
<p class="para">‘Flying in the Mk.VI was quite an experience in itself. It had a pressure chamber up forward, resembling a large boiler about five feet in diameter with a large valve at the front which had to be closed after the pilot, navigator and wireless operator (no gunner, naturally) had squeezed in through a just-large-enough, if we bent double, circular ‘door’ which had to be clamped closed with four very large and solid steel clips. Finally, a large wheel in the centre of the locking contraption had to be turned many times to close the main valve and so make the chamber airtight. Then pressure could be built up to a comfortable level. There was also a low cupola above the pilot’s head out of which he only could just see - when the tail was down, so that taxiing was a rather ‘hit or miss’ affair. Getting out of the contraption in a hurry was seldom performed in less than 1½ minutes; then there was a forty-foot trot to the rear exit - hardly calculated to give one confidence in survival if the worst happened.</p>
<p class="para">‘Although the ‘Oboe’ blind bombing system was extraordinarily accurate it had two drawbacks, both related. Quite obviously the aircraft carrying the airborne component must be able to reach the Ruhr at least if it was able to be used to its full potential. Because of the frequencies on which it was operated and with the controlling ground stations in England (not until after D-Day could specially prepared mobile stations be deployed in Europe) a target range of at least <a id="page_16"></a>270 miles was a ‘must’. High flying aircraft which could reach 30,000 feet plus were a minimum requirement. It was alleged that the VI was capable of reaching 35,000 feet with a load sufficient for our needs; cruising at 280 mph. (The VI underwent many changes and only by extending the wing by twelve feet was the Mk.VI finally able to reach the magic 40,000 feet.) My log book shows no record of any height reached in one above 30,000 feet, though I do have a vague recollection of once just making 32,000 feet.</p>
<p class="para">‘Our Wellingtons were fitted with the embryo airborne part of the Oboe system (nicknamed ‘Broody Hen’) thereby carrying out the initial trials of what later became the most accurate British blind bombing system of World War 2 when it was fitted to Pathfinder Mosquitoes of our squadron and 106 Squadron. Fortunately for us and for the two Oboe squadrons, a week before it was almost decided to use the Mk.VI operationally, it was rejected in favour of the Mosquito. The Mk.VI had proved too slow and had other disadvantages which made it unsuitable for use in the Oboe squadrons.’</p>
<p class="para">During 1941 and 1942 109 Squadron (formerly the Wireless Intelligence Development Unit) was designated the Wireless Intelligence Special Duty Squadron. It had a number of different types of aircraft; all fitted with special radio intercept equipment. Wellingtons had been introduced in January 1941 and were used especially on the longer distance flights, both by day and by night. Geoffrey MacFarlane recalls: ‘Wellingtons were invaluable in the radio-intercept role. These and Ansons were the main ‘work-horses’ of our squadron, which was the airborne unit initially tasked with finding and pinpointing German radio beams used in their blind bombing systems and other radio intercept duties which devolved upon us. On 8 May 1941 we were able to prove the existence of nine sites along the French coast of an advanced type of Fighter Control radar, capable of much greater accuracy than earlier models. This resulted in one, the site at Bruneval, being raided and dismantled by Combined Operations forces in 1942. We were also used in the interception of the German battleship Bismarck on 27 May 1941. Because the Wellington was such a rugged aircraft we were able to operate it in the radio countermeasures role, from late June 1941, for a few months in the Middle East with only one rigger as ground crew. Despite our best maintenance efforts, our port engine became so temperamental that we made several flights to Crete, Malta, Sicily and Gibraltar with the engine only about 25 per cent serviceable. On leaving Gibraltar for the UK when our detachment was over it became completely unserviceable but in spite of this we were able to fly for seven hours to Land’s End on the other engine and were, I believe, the first Wellington to do this.’</p>
<p class="para">Meanwhile, advances had been made in the technical field. Very early in the war Coastal Command had realised that its anti-submarine aircraft would need something more reliable than the quickly consumed flares they were using at night to illuminate U-boats during the last mile of the approach when ASV metre-wavelength radar was blind. As a result, in 1940 Squadron Leader Humphrey de Verde Leigh a personnel officer in Coastal Command was encouraged by the then Chief of Coastal Command, Air Chief Marshal Bowhill <small>KCB CMG DSO</small>, to develop the idea of an airborne searchlight. A pilot in the First World War, Leigh had flown many anti-submarine patrols and had experienced <a id="page_17"></a>the frustrations of searching for the elusive underwater craft. Locating the U-boat had become considerably easier since the introduction of ASV radar; nevertheless, the difficulties of the last mile or two of the approach remained. The target simply dropped off the radar screen, leaving the aircrew literally in the dark. In October 1940 Leigh experimented with a 90cm searchlight in the nose or belly of a Wellington bomber because he knew that several Wimpys had been equipped with an extra motor and a heavy current generator to become the DWI Wellingtons used to explode magnetic mines. Leigh explained it all in a paper: ‘The electrical generating equipment used in the DWI Wellingtons…consisted of either a Gipsy Queen engine and a 90kw generator or a Ford V-8 engine and a 35kw generator, either of which would give ample power for the searchlight… mounted in a swivel ring to allow at least 20 degrees downwards or sideways movement. The 15 cwt 90cm Army type searchlight as at present used for ground defence gives an effective beam of about 5,000 yards with 2 degrees dispersion. It is suggested that a searchlight of not less than this power…would be most suitable for this purpose.’<sup><a id="ft2" href="#fn2">2</a></sup> Despite early difficulties, Leigh had his prototype installation ready by January 1941.</p>
<p class="para">The Royal Aircraft Establishment at Farnborough claimed that the type of searchlight specified by Leigh would be far too big to fit into a Wellington’s turret - and tried to interest Bowhill in experiments carried out in 1928 with towed flares. Bowhill dismissed their suggestion out of hand and ordered Leigh to work full time on his idea. He soon abandoned the idea of using the 90cm searchlight, instead specifying the naval 24-inch, or 61cm, light. This could occupy the aperture in the floor of the Wellington fuselage originally intended for the ‘dustbin’ ventral gun position The Frazer Nash hydraulic-control-system gun turret was adapted to operate the searchlight so that the operator’s eyes were six feet above the top of the four-degree-wide beam - later widened to twelve degrees - which could be steered from the nose of the aircraft. In March 1941 a Wellington began flight trials with ASV radar installed. After some disappointing trial runs against a RN submarine, Leigh occupied the bomb aimer’s position, the ASV radar picked up the submarine and one mile from the target, Leigh switched on the light, left it on and found it quite simple to hold the beam on the target, clearly illuminating it. More trials followed. It was found that submarine crew could not hear the approaching aircraft until the last moments of the attack.</p>
<p class="para">By May 1941 any weight problems were overcome by substituting batteries for the generator. The light would have to burn for only the final thirty seconds of an attack so Leigh replaced the motor-driven generator system, which was too large and too heavy, with a battery of seven standard 12-volt batteries, trickle-charged by a generator powered by the Wellington’s engines. It weighed 600lb. However, the Leigh Light had a rival; the Turbinlite, which had been developed by Group Captain Helmore to illuminate enemy bombers during night raids over Britain. In mid-June 1941 Bowhill left to form Ferry Command and Air Chief Marshal Sir Philip B. Joubert de la Ferté <small>KCB CMG DSO</small> took over Coastal Command. He ordered Leigh to return to his duties as Assistant Personnel officer and asked for Helmore’s invention to be installed on two ASV Wellingtons. The Turbinlite was thirteen times as powerful as Leigh’s but it occupied the whole of the nose of the aircraft and required so much power that the batteries took up the <a id="page_18"></a>whole bomb bay of a Douglas Boston. After two months Joubert found out that he had made a mistake. ‘The Helmore Light was unnecessarily brilliant for use against U-boats and otherwise unsuitable. I then came to the conclusion that Leigh’s light was preferable.’ The operator had to switch on the light at the last possible moment just as the ASV reading was disappearing from the radar screen because the blip, which grows clearer up to about three quarters of a mile from the target, then becomes merged in the general returns from the sea’s surface. The detached object was then trapped and held in the beam allowing the crew to release its bombs. At best, the device illuminated the target U-boat superbly, simultaneously dazzling its gunners and spoiling their aim. At worst, it dazzled the aircrew, leading to catastrophic crashes into the sea.<sup><a id="ft3" href="#fn3">3</a></sup></p>
<p class="para">The Leigh Light went into production but eighteen crucial months had elapsed between Leigh’s original suggestion and the first use of the device on operations. On 7 August Joubert called for six Wellingtons and six Catalinas to be fitted with the Leigh Light. Three months later he called for another thirty Wellingtons to be so equipped. However, the Air Ministry had misgivings and needed the guarantee of successful trials by the first six Wellingtons before it would sanction more suitably equipped aircraft. Under pressure from Joubert they finally agreed, in February 1942, to the formation of a full squadron of Leigh Light Wellingtons. In April 1417 Flight at Chivenor was expanded to become 172 Squadron but suitably equipped aircraft were slow to arrive. By May the squadron could only call upon five Wellingtons.</p>
<p class="para">In the spring of 1942 the first Wellington GR.VIIIs entered service with Coastal Command. Just over two years earlier, ICs had taken part in maritime operations for the first time when Wellington DWIs, fitted with 48 feet diameter dural hoops, had been employed in exploding enemy magnetic mines at sea. Altogether, 394 GR.VIIIs were built. As on the Mk IC the type was powered by the Bristol Pegasus XVIII engines. The GR.VIII differed from the Mk IC in being the first to be equipped with ASV.II radar and fitted with radar masts on top of the fuselage. Some versions also carried Leigh Lights. The GR.VIII was subsequently joined in Coastal Command service by a series of more advanced marks of Wellington. 180 XIs, built at Squires Gate, were followed on the production lines by 843 XIII models. 58 XII versions were produced at Chester and Weybridge. Squires Gate and Chester turned out a further 841 XIVs. Altogether, 3,406 Wellingtons were built at Blackpool, with the last leaving the production lines on 13 October 1945.</p>
<p class="para">Both the XI and XII versions were powered by Hercules VI or XVI power-plants and carried no nose turret or radar masts on top of the fuselage. ASV Mk.III radar was housed in a chin radome beneath the nose. Beneath the wing provision was made for two 18-inch torpedoes and a retractable Leigh Light was installed in the bomb bay. ASV.II radar and masts and the nose turret were re-introduced on the XIII, which was fitted with two Bristol Hercules XVII engines. The final general reconnaissance version, the XIV, differed little from the XII but was powered by Hercules XVII engines. Some Coastal Command Wellingtons served as ‘flying class-rooms’ after conversion to T.XVII and T.XVIII standard.</p>
<p class="para">The Wellington X, which entered service with RAF Bomber Command in 1943, was the final bomber version to see service in World War II and was the most-produced model of all. An improved version of the B.III, it was powered by <a id="page_19"></a>two 1,675hp Bristol Hercules XVI engines and 3,804 examples were built. Flown by a crew of four or five, it had a twin-gun nose turret, a four-gun rear turret and sometimes carried two beam guns; bomb-load was 4,000lb. At one time the Wellington X equipped 25 OTUs (Operational Training Units) and the type saw widespread service in the Middle East. Post-war, the Wellington X was employed on training duties with no armament fitted for eight years until finally replaced by the Vickers Varsity, the veteran Wellingtons then being returned to Maintenance Command for disposal as scrap. The B.X had a maximum speed of 255 mph. Nos. 99 and 215 Squadron in India operated the Wellington X against Japanese targets and during the battle of Imphal in April-May 1944 they ferried much needed bombs to Hurricane fighter-bomber squadrons on the Imphal Plain. During August and September 1944, 99 and 215 Squadrons converted to the Liberator.</p>
<p class="para">In 2nd Tactical Air Force 69 Squadron was unique in that it used Wellingtons for photo-reconnaissance at night. One cannot complete the Wellington’s diversity of wartime operations without a mention of the role played by the Mk XV and XVI (most of which were converted from Mk ICs) in Transport Command. Their bomb bays were sealed and none carried armament.</p>
<p class="para">In total, four aircraft that embodied geodetic construction were designed by Vickers, starting with the Wellesley and ending with the oval-section, all metal-bodied twin-engined Viking passenger airliner which initially embodied the Wellington’s geodetic wing. The two other types, originally conceived as heavy bombers, were designed in parallel with the Wellington. The Warwick, a larger development of the Wellington, was first flown on 13 August 1939 and was powered by the troublesome Rolls-Royce Vulture engines. It did not enter into RAF service until spring 1945 and Pratt &amp; Whitney Double Wasp and later, the Bristol Centaurus replaced the Vultures. A total of 843 Warwicks was built at Weybridge.</p>
<p class="para">Fourth and last of the wholly geodetic line was the four-engined Windsor bomber, which first flew on 23 October 1943. An altogether novel and capacious aircraft, it included four main landing gear units, sparless wings and 20mm cannon in two remotely-controlled rearward-firing nacelle barbettes with a tail gunner’s sighting station. Just three Windsors - all prototypes - flew and a fourth was almost complete when the programme was cancelled soon after the war ended.</p>
<p class="para">With the end of hostilities Wellingtons soon all but completely disappeared from the RAF inventory, as L. W. Collett, an RAF regular since 1938, recalls: ‘At the end of the war hundreds and hundreds of Wellingtons were flown to Little Rissington (not far from Cirencester) for disposal. They were better than the ones we had at Wellesbourne and we used to go and rob bits and pieces off them to maintain our serviceability.’</p>
<p class="para">Several Wellington Xs were revamped by Boulton Paul for extended service as crew trainers with Flying Training Command. This version was known as the T.10 (one of which is on permanent display at the RAF Museum, Hendon) and earned the distinction of being the last Wellington in RAF service. The last Wellington T 10 was finally struck off charge in 1953. Both the T.10 and the T.19 were superseded in the Air Navigation Schools and at 201 Advanced Flying School at Swinderby by the Vickers Valetta T 3 and the Vickers Varsity respectively. <a id="page_20"></a>Vickers had started work on the design of the VC1 (Vickers Commercial One) as the Viking was originally known (the same name as the amphibian which was Vickers first complete post-World War I design) in the late autumn of 1944. The Viking was the first British post war airliner to fly, on 22 June 1945. After 19 Vikings had been built, a switch was made to all stressed-skin construction, but the Bristol Hercules remained the standard power plant of all Vikings, production of which eventually totalled 163. The Nene-powered Viking was the world’s first jet transport and in July 1948 it was flown from Heathrow to Villacoublay, near Paris, in 34 minutes 7 seconds at a mean speed of 384mph - a record for a civilian transport aircraft. A redesign of the Viking led to the Valetta for the RAF - a machine first flown in June 1947 and which was really ‘five aeroplanes in one’ because it was capable of quick conversion to a troop carrier, freighter, ambulance, glider tug or paratroop transport. The Valletta was followed by the Varsity ‘flying classroom’, a specialised crew trainer which took the place of the Wellington T Mark 10, but on an expanded scale. In general it followed the lines of the Viking and Valetta but it differed in having a tricycle undercarriage, increased length and wingspan and a bomb-aiming pannier beneath the fuselage.</p>
<p class="para">For seventeen years the Wimpy earned the undying affection of its air and ground crews. During the Second World War no other British bomber was built in greater numbers and the 11,461st and final Wellington, a T.10 built at Squires Gate, Blackpool, was delivered on 13 October 1945. No other RAF bomber saw greater and more widespread service. The Wellington’s place in aviation history is thus assured.</p>
<p class="fn-title"><b>Footnotes</b></p>
<p class="fn"><a id="fn1" href="#ft1">1</a>     When war was declared on 3 September 1939 No.3 Group of RAF Bomber Command was equipped with Wellington Mk Is and IAs in East Anglia and consisted of eight Squadrons (9, 37, 38, 99, 115, 149 and two Reserve Squadrons: 214 and 215). On 4 September fourteen Wellingtons of 9 and 149 Squadrons raided Brünsbuttel where two German warships had been reported by air reconnaissance. Bad weather and heavy anti-aircraft fire interfered with the action and two aircraft, which had penetrated ‘the harbour, were lost. Others failed to locate the target while the bombs which did score hits were ineffective. In addition there was an embargo imposed by the War Cabinet on attacks on other than strictly military targets, which precluded the bombing of enemy ships in harbours, for fear of injuring civilians in the vicinity. On 3 December 24 Wellingtons attacked units of the German fleet at Heligoland from ‘high’ level in cloud, with almost negative results on either side. This action was taken to confirm that Wellingtons, could penetrate strongly defended areas but on 14 December when 12 Wellingtons of 99 Squadron penetrated the Schillig Roads near Wilhelmshaven at low level, five were lost and one crashed when almost home. Four days later when 24 Wellingtons attempted an attack on the German fleet and naval bases in the Schillig Roads and Wilhelmshaven over half the force was lost.</p>
<p class="fn"><i><a id="fn2" href="#ft2">2</a>     ‘In Great Waters: The Epic Story of the Battle of the Atlantic 1939-45’</i> by Spencer Dunmore (Pimlico 2001)/Aircraft versus Submarine by Alfred Price (William Kimber 1973).</p>
<p class="fn"><a id="fn3" href="#ft3">3</a>     Toward the end of the war, a Canadian pilot, John Brooks of Toronto, was still undergoing operational training over the North Sea when his ASV operator picked up a target. It seemed to be a good opportunity to practise the use of the Leigh light. Flying at low level, Brooks approached the target and at the appropriate moment switched on his Leigh light - to be confronted by the sight of Queen Mary, her immense hull filling his windshield. For an electric moment, he pictured himself crashing full tilt into the Allies’ most valuable troop carrier. Applying full power, Brooks just managed to drag the sluggish Wellington over the huge ship’s mast-tops.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-08-03 08:21:37 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-03 08:21:38 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-03 08:21:40 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-03 08:21:42 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:45 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:47 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:49 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:21:51 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:21:52 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:21:53 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 08:22:15 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 08:22:16 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-03 08:22:16 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@519aa821
