2023-08-19 13:26:28 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-08-19 13:26:28 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-19 13:26:56 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-19 13:26:56 INFO  - Session id - 213fb3025b3061549dbd176c3f708d2efa76a828
2023-08-19 13:26:56 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-19 13:26:56 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:26:58 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-19 13:26:59 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-19 13:26:59 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:26:59 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-19 13:27:01 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-19 13:27:01 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:01 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-19 13:27:01 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-19 13:27:04 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:05 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-19 13:27:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:07 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:08 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-19 13:27:08 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:09 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:10 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:11 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-08-19 13:27:11 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-19 13:27:12 INFO  - bookName: Anna Karenina Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-19 13:27:12 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-08-19 13:27:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-19 13:27:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-08-19 13:27:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-19 13:27:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-19 13:27:16 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:27:21 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:27:21 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-19 13:27:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:27:43 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-19 13:27:43 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:28:03 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-19 13:28:23 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:28:24 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-19 13:28:24 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-08-19 13:28:24 INFO  - randomBookName: Richard III
2023-08-19 13:28:25 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-19 13:28:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Richard III'
2023-08-19 13:28:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-19 13:28:31 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-19 13:28:32 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:28:32 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:28:36 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-19 13:28:37 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:28:37 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:28:37 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-19 13:28:39 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:28:39 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-19 13:28:39 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-19 13:28:54 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-08-19 13:28:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-19 13:28:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-19 13:28:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-08-19 13:28:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-19 13:28:56 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>Richard III</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="section_80974" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">Act I</h3>
<div id="section_80975" class="section">
<h3 class="section_title">SCENE I. London. A street.</h3>
<div class="text">
<blockquote>
<div><em>Enter GLOUCESTER, solus</em></div>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Now is the winter of our discontent<br />
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;<br />
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house<br />
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.<br />
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;<br />
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;<br />
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,<br />
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.<br />
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;<br />
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds<br />
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,<br />
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber<br />
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.<br />
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,<br />
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass;<br />
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty<br />
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph;<br />
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,<br />
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,<br />
Deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time<br />
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,<br />
And that so lamely and unfashionable<br />
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;<br />
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,<br />
Have no delight to pass away the time,<br />
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun<br />
And descant on mine own deformity:<br />
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover,<br />
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,<br />
I am determined to prove a villain<br />
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.<br />
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,<br />
By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams,<br />
To set my brother Clarence and the king<br />
In deadly hate the one against the other:<br />
And if King Edward be as true and just<br />
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,<br />
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,<br />
About a prophecy, which says that 'G'<br />
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.<br />
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here<br />
Clarence comes.<br /></p>
<p><em>Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY</em></p>
<p>Brother, good day; what means this armed guard<br />
That waits upon your grace?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>His majesty<br />
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed<br />
This conduct to convey me to the Tower.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Upon what cause?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Because my name is George.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours;<br />
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:<br />
O, belike his majesty hath some intent<br />
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.<br />
But what's the matter, Clarence? may I know?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest<br />
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,<br />
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;<br />
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.<br />
And says a wizard told him that by G<br />
His issue disinherited should be;<br />
And, for my name of George begins with G,<br />
It follows in his thought that I am he.<br />
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these<br />
Have moved his highness to commit me now.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Why, this it is, when men are ruled by women:<br />
'Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower:<br />
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she<br />
That tempers him to this extremity.<br />
Was it not she and that good man of worship,<br />
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,<br />
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,<br />
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?<br />
We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>By heaven, I think there's no man is secure<br />
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds<br />
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.<br />
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant<br />
Lord hastings was to her for his delivery?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Humbly complaining to her deity<br />
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.<br />
I'll tell you what; I think it is our way,<br />
If we will keep in favour with the king,<br />
To be her men and wear her livery:<br />
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,<br />
Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen.<br />
Are mighty gossips in this monarchy.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>BRAKENBURY</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>I beseech your graces both to pardon me;<br />
His majesty hath straitly given in charge<br />
That no man shall have private conference,<br />
Of what degree soever, with his brother.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,<br />
You may partake of any thing we say:<br />
We speak no treason, man: we say the king<br />
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen<br />
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;<br />
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,<br />
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;<br />
And that the queen's kindred are made gentle-folks:<br />
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>BRAKENBURY</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,<br />
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,<br />
Were best he do it secretly, alone.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>BRAKENBURY</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>What one, my lord?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>BRAKENBURY</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal<br />
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>We are the queen's abjects, and must obey.<br />
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;<br />
And whatsoever you will employ me in,<br />
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister,<br />
I will perform it to enfranchise you.<br />
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood<br />
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>I know it pleaseth neither of us well.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;<br />
Meantime, have patience.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>CLARENCE</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>I must perforce. Farewell.<br /></p>
<p><em>Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and Guard</em></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.<br />
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,<br />
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,<br />
If heaven will take the present at our hands.<br />
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?<br /></p>
<p><em>Enter HASTINGS</em></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>HASTINGS</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Good time of day unto my gracious lord!<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>As much unto my good lord chamberlain!<br />
Well are you welcome to the open air.<br />
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>HASTINGS</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must:<br />
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks<br />
That were the cause of my imprisonment.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;<br />
For they that were your enemies are his,<br />
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>HASTINGS</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,<br />
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>What news abroad?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>HASTINGS</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>No news so bad abroad as this at home;<br />
The King is sickly, weak and melancholy,<br />
And his physicians fear him mightily.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.<br />
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,<br />
And overmuch consumed his royal person:<br />
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.<br />
What, is he in his bed?<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>HASTINGS</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>He is.<br /></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>GLOUCESTER</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<p>Go you before, and I will follow you.<br /></p>
<p><em>Exit HASTINGS</em></p>
<p>He cannot live, I hope; and must not die<br />
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.<br />
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,<br />
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;<br />
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,<br />
Clarence hath not another day to live:<br />
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,<br />
And leave the world for me to bustle in!<br />
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.<br />
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?<br />
The readiest way to make the wench amends<br />
Is to become her husband and her father:<br />
The which will I; not all so much for love<br />
As for another secret close intent,<br />
By marrying her which I must reach unto.<br />
But yet I run before my horse to market:<br />
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns:<br />
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.<br /></p>
<p><em>Exit</em></p>
</blockquote>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-08-19 13:28:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-19 13:28:57 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-19 13:28:57 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-19 13:28:58 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:29:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:29:02 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:29:02 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:29:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:29:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:29:04 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-19 13:29:25 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-19 13:29:25 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-19 13:29:25 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@53172f29
