2023-03-12 08:27:35 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-03-12 08:27:35 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-12 08:28:10 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-12 08:28:10 INFO  - Session id - f535a1c0ce734a743cf155861060f50c96e33cca
2023-03-12 08:28:10 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-12 08:28:11 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:14 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:15 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-12 08:28:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-12 08:28:21 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:22 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-12 08:28:22 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:24 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:25 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:27 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-12 08:28:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:29 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:30 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:31 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000303
2023-03-12 08:28:31 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-12 08:28:34 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-03-12 08:28:34 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-03-12 08:28:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-12 08:28:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000303'
2023-03-12 08:28:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-12 08:28:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-12 08:28:39 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:28:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:28:47 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-12 08:29:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:29:09 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-12 08:29:09 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:29:30 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-12 08:29:50 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:29:52 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-12 08:29:53 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-3
2023-03-12 08:29:53 INFO  - randomBookName: The Hidden
2023-03-12 08:29:53 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-12 08:29:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Hidden'
2023-03-12 08:29:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-12 08:30:01 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-12 08:30:02 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:30:02 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:30:09 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-12 08:30:10 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:30:10 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:30:11 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-12 08:30:12 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:30:13 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-12 08:30:13 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-12 08:30:40 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-12 08:30:42 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:30:42 INFO  - Step 12 - I change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-03-12 08:30:42 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:30:44 INFO  - Step 13 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-12 08:30:44 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-12 08:30:44 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-12 08:30:45 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-12 08:30:45 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Chapter 4</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style" />
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:0fcaaf3e-8c0b-41a5-bb0f-4bc173654b2d" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch4" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CN" id="ch4"><span aria-label="13" id="pg_13" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><small>CHAPTER</small></h1>
<h1 class="CT">4</h1>
</header>
<p class="DL">NOW</p>
<p class="DL1">Joanna</p>
<p class="DL2"><i>Friday, December 21</i></p>
<p class="CO"><span class="cotx">D<small>ETECTIVE SERGEANT JO</small><small>ANNA</small> </span>Harper nodded to Police Constable Steve Atkinson, who’d brought the ram. He swung the front end of the black metal cylinder at the lock with practiced precision, just hard enough to break it.</p>
<p class="TX">The door to Apartment 7 swung wide, and Joanna inhaled cautiously, conscious that the smell of a dead body wasn’t one she wanted in her nostrils; once it got up there, that very particular stench took a while to shift. Thankfully, all she caught was a strong odor of damp, from the flooded floors. Two paramedics waited outside the flat, along with the caretaker, Terry. She thought of the bucket of bloody water that Terry had shown them and drew a deep breath to steady herself before she stepped inside, her black sneakers squelching on the hall carpet.</p>
<p class="TX">Joanna had asked the caretaker what he knew about the owner, a Mr. Gregor Franks.</p>
<p class="TX">“He’s a single guy, I think. Not too short of cash. I think he’s in some kind of sales manager–type job. Or stocks and shares maybe.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label="14" id="pg_14" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>“Age?” asked Jo.</p>
<p class="TX">“About thirty, I’d say.”</p>
<p class="TX">“When’s the last time you saw him?”</p>
<p class="TX">Terry had to think hard. “I don’t know. A while now. Two or three years? I only come when I’m called. He never calls.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I understand you do have a key to Mr. Franks’s flat?” said Atkinson. “But you haven’t been inside to check on him since the leak?”</p>
<p class="TX">Terry looked pointedly down at the bucket that stood between them on the concrete floor. “I didn’t know what I might find. I’m not good with stuff like that. Sight of blood. You’d need another ambulance—for me when I hit the floor.”</p>
<p class="TX">After they’d climbed the stairs to the seventh floor and Jo tried it in the lock, the key didn’t work. Franks must have had it changed. Joanna knocked, then knocked again, and shouted for Gregor to open up, but even as she did so, Atkinson dumped the heavy hold-all he carried on to the floor and unzipped it, readying the Enforcer to break it down.</p>
<p class="TX">Inside the flat, Joanna led the way. With only the leak to go on, and the occupant not known to police, they were keeping an open mind. With that amount of blood, there could have been anything happening in the apartment: multiple casualties, dangerous suspects still on scene, a terrible accident. Equally, they might find nothing at all. When Jo was sent to the job, the duty Sergeant could only speculate. “Might not even be blood, could be wood stain or paint, or rust. And if it’s blood, could be a domestic accident, where the person has taken themselves off to hospital but left the tap on by mistake.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Or it could be a ritual sacrifice, and the blood belongs to a sheep or something?”</p>
<p class="TX">Murray’s voice on the radio was without mirth. “Jo, all we have is a bucket of what is apparently bloody water. No other reports of anything unusual, no body, no one reported at risk or missing or injured. Just go with Steve and check it out for me. If you find anything, I’ll divert resources immediately.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m assuming you’re asking me because you don’t have anyone else?”</p>
<p class="TX">“You’d be right to assume that. I’ve got so many immediate response jobs on, they’re stacking up as we speak. Firearms are at <span aria-label="15" id="pg_15" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>a stabbing in the city center, and all of my other units are out with higher priority stuff. Ambulance will attend, but they’ve stated that the police need to clear the scene before they go in.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Understood.”</p>
<p class="TX">This close to Christmas, the service always got overloaded. Every year it got worse. A lot of staff took holiday, so that often all they had on duty were a skeleton selection of response officers, half the Control team and a few sergeants, like Murray and Joanna.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, and Jo? Take a stab vest.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, take a stab vest, it’s probably nothing,” muttered Jo as she shrugged on the heavy garment before walking out of the building and getting in the patrol car with Atkinson. DS Harper enjoyed a good moan, like everyone, but the truth was, she secretly loved it when staff shortages meant that she had to get back on frontline work. Joanna made the move to detective because she thought she’d prefer the investigative side of things. She wasn’t going to admit it to Murray, but it turned out she was much happier wearing a stab vest and breaking down doors.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mr. Franks?”</p>
<p class="TX">Jo edged along the hallway before pushing open the door to the living room. It was cold and dark in there, the power having been shut off along with the water. By torchlight she could see that the place was mostly tidy and relatively clean. A plate of toast crusts was balanced on the arm of the corner couch, along with an undrunk cup of tea. A box of toys had been put away against the wall.</p>
<p class="TX">In the kitchen, a packet of bread lay open on the counter. She picked up the nearest slice, felt it, gave it a sniff. Slightly stale. A phone was plugged into an outlet. Jo picked it up and swiped the screen, but it was dead. In the wallet lying next to it, she found a driver’s license and pulled it out. A kind face, lightly stubbled, the kind of thick, wavy hair Atkinson had ten years ago.</p>
<p class="TX">The next room off the living room contained an unmade double bed and a cot pushed into the corner, the mattress covered in a sheet, an open toddler sleeping bag bunched up on its end, as if the child had just been lifted from it. In the corner, a floral-print summer dress had been tossed, and on top of it lay a single pink baby sock fringed with white lace. Harper quickly scanned the <span aria-label="16" id="pg_16" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>room, then crouched to look under the bed. Nothing there but a collection of seashells in a box.</p>
<p class="TX">“Clear,” she called.</p>
<p class="TX">There was another bedroom, this one spotlessly neat, not a crease in the duvet cover or a single discarded item on the floor. Joanna opened the cupboards and found meticulously ironed shirts and trousers, all arranged in color order.</p>
<p class="TX">“Clear,” she called again.</p>
<p class="TX">Back in the main space the two officers stood in front of the last door. When Atkinson turned the handle, he found that it couldn’t be opened.</p>
<p class="TX">Joanna banged on the door with a closed fist. “Mr. Franks?” she said. “Gregor? Can you hear me? My name’s Jo. I’m with the police. Can you open the door?”</p>
<p class="TX">The silence was the buzzing kind, in which you strain your ears, hoping for a sound, any sound. There was nothing.</p>
<p class="TX">“We’re going to force the door, Mr. Franks,” said Jo. “Stand back.”</p>
<p class="TX">Atkinson picked up the ram. She stepped out of the way as he aimed the front end at the handle and swung.</p>
<p class="TX">One great smash and the door was swinging on its hinges. The scene inside was a mess of red and white, blood and tiles, a bath brimful of bloody water surrounding the pale skin of the man’s body. Atkinson coughed, to cover a gasp probably. The body itself was unmarked, perfectly still and white, hands and feet bluish and mottled, face peaceful, eyes closed. Harper thought of dumplings in beetroot soup, and her stomach rumbled. She’d skipped lunch, saving herself for dinner tonight. Now it looked like she wouldn’t be getting any.</p>
<p class="TX">“Anything?” said one of the paramedics.</p>
<p class="TX">“There’s a body here,” called Jo. She checked behind the door to make absolutely sure there was no one else in the room waiting to attack them, but the action was just routine; she’d known already, copper’s instinct, that the man was alone. “It’s safe. You can come through.”</p>
<p class="TX">She couldn’t see the wrists, only the backs of the man’s hands. This was a scene she’d come across a few times in her years as a <span aria-label="17" id="pg_17" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>response officer, and it didn’t get any easier to understand. What had made this man do this to himself?</p>
<p class="TX">“Is that him, the owner of the flat?” asked Atkinson.</p>
<p class="TX">Joanna went back to the kitchen counter for the driver’s license. She compared the dead-looking face in the bath with the living one in the image. She showed the picture to Atkinson, who nodded. “That’s him.”</p>
<p class="TX">The two paramedics entered the bathroom gingerly, so as not to slip in the mixture of blood and water on the tiles. One of them knelt by the bath. “Mr. Franks?” he said. “Can you hear me?” He placed a hand on the man’s forehead. Then he turned over the arm nearest to them, exposing the inside of his wrist. Joanna fully expected to see a deep cut there, and perhaps later they would find a razor blade that had slipped underneath the body as he fell unconscious. But there was no damage: the skin on the wrist was intact. The paramedic reached for the left arm: also no cuts.</p>
<p class="TX">“Where’s the blood coming from?” asked Jo.</p>
<p class="TX">“I can’t tell at the moment. Somewhere on the back of him.” He placed his fingers at the man’s neck, then listened at his chest; his cheek came away wet.</p>
<p class="TX">“He’s alive.”</p>
<p class="TX">This surprised Joanna, who had unwittingly broken the first rule of policing: she had <i>assumed</i> Franks was dead because it had been several hours since the leak was spotted, because it was freezing in the flat, because of the blood and the fact that he was lying in a full tub of water. Mostly because it looked so much like a dead body, and she’d seen more than a few in her time.</p>
<p class="TX">The paramedic lifted Gregor’s head out of the water. “Head trauma. That’s where he’s bleeding.”</p>
<p class="TX">Jo spoke into the radio. “Control, update on the situation in Apartment 7 in the North block on the New Park estate. We have a casualty. Repeat: there is one casualty, serious trauma protocol please, head injury, severe blood loss is evident. Unconscious male, positive for signs of life.”</p>
<p class="TX">Over the radio, Sergeant Murray said, “Copy that, Jo. Any suspects present?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label="18" id="pg_18" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>“No. It’s not clear what we’re dealing with yet, whether there’s anyone else involved. Stand by for update.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Received, standing by.”</p>
<p class="TX">The paramedic said, “Gregor, we’re going to get you out of the bath now. Can you hear me, Gregor?”</p>
<p class="TX">He rolled up a sleeve and pulled the plug in the bath, letting the water out. Then he turned to Atkinson. “Get some blankets or something. The duvet off the bed. And help us lift him out, would you? Both of you—we’ll need all of us to do it safely.”</p>
<p class="TX">As the icy pink bathwater swirled away, the two police officers made a soft bed of blankets on the bathroom floor. Harper placed a hand under the man’s head as the four of them lifted him out, and was surprised at the sensation of sponginess, an area of skull that should have been smooth and hard but instead felt like wet cake in her palm.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-12 08:30:45 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-12 08:30:46 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-12 08:31:11 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-12 08:31:11 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:11 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-12 08:31:12 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:13 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-12 08:31:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:15 INFO  - Step 18 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-12 08:31:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-12 08:31:18 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-12 08:31:18 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-12 08:31:21 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-12 08:31:24 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-12 08:31:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:32 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:31:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:31:35 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-12 08:31:36 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:31:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:31:41 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-12 08:31:41 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-12 08:31:41 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@37d9d742
