2023-04-10 20:27:48 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-04-10 20:27:48 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-10 20:28:21 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-10 20:28:21 INFO  - Session id - 6a6f7a6a4a2c09504342f8d138755ad46d858412
2023-04-10 20:28:21 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-10 20:28:21 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:24 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-10 20:28:25 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-10 20:28:25 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:25 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-10 20:28:27 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-10 20:28:27 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:28 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-10 20:28:28 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-10 20:28:31 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:31 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-10 20:28:31 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:34 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:36 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-10 20:28:36 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:36 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:37 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:39 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: The JFK Report Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: Black Notice Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: The Story of a Boy Favored by Providence Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: Boy With Loaded Gun Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: Anna Karenina Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - bookName: Faust Part 1 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-10 20:28:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-04-10 20:28:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-10 20:28:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-10 20:28:45 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:28:51 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:28:51 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-10 20:29:13 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:29:13 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-10 20:29:13 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:29:34 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-10 20:29:54 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:29:56 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-10 20:29:56 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-04-10 20:29:56 INFO  - randomBookName: Turn the Tables
2023-04-10 20:29:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-10 20:29:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Turn the Tables'
2023-04-10 20:30:00 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-10 20:30:03 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-10 20:30:04 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:30:04 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:30:12 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-10 20:30:13 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:30:15 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:30:15 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-10 20:30:16 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:30:17 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-10 20:30:17 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-10 20:30:42 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-04-10 20:30:43 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:30:44 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-04-10 20:30:44 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:30:45 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-04-10 20:30:45 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-10 20:30:45 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-10 20:30:45 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-04-10 20:30:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-10 20:30:47 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for Linux (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<meta http-equiv="CONTENT-TYPE" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Turn the Tables</title>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="OpenOffice.org 3.0 (Unix)" />
<meta name="AUTHOR" content="JM Snyder" />
<meta name="CREATED" content="20100531;20520000" />
<meta name="CHANGEDBY" content="JM Snyder" />
<meta name="CHANGED" content="20100712;20170000" />
<meta name="eBook-CoverPath" content="F:\Writings\Published\JMS Books\J.M. Snyder\Turn the Tables\Turn the Tables Cover.jpg" />
<meta name="eBook-PPCCoverPath" content="" />
<meta name="eBook-PPCThumbPath" content="" />
<meta name="eBook-SpinePath" content="" />
<meta name="eBook-ThumbPath" content="" />
<meta name="eBook-author" content="JM Snyder" />
<meta name="eBook-filename" content="Turn_the_Tables_by_JM_Snyder_LIT.lit" />
<meta name="eBook-title" content="Turn the Tables by JM Snyder" />
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" /><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" /><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body dir="ltr" class="calibre">
<p class="western9" id="calibre_pb_2">Turn the Tables</p>
<p class="western">By J.M. Snyder</p>
<p class="c1"><br class="calibre2" /></p>
<p class="western7">Vic Braunson came home from a long,
exhausting evening at work to find the door to the apartment he
shared with his lover Matt diLorenzo locked. Surprised, Vic dug his
keys out of his pocket and fiddled with them for a moment in the
hallway’s bad light until he managed to find the one that fit the
door. He turned it in the lock, then placed a hand on the doorknob
and felt a steady bass beating like a heart in the palm of his
hand. As he opened the door, heavy music poured out into the hall.
Quickly Vic stepped inside and shut the door behind him. Their
neighbors would be complaining about that, if they hadn’t
already.</p>
<p class="western7">Locking the door, Vic kicked off his shoes
and dropped his keys onto the nearby telephone table. “Matt?” he
called, raising his voice over the thudding music. As he shrugged
out of his jacket, he peeked into the living room where the stereo
played, but all that stared back at him was Sadie, the
golden-haired mutt he had rescued from the pound. She lay curled
into a ball on Vic’s recliner, head in her paws and a suffering
look on her face. Though Vic couldn’t read her mind, he knew she
had to be thinking exactly what he himself thought at that moment.
<i class="calibre3">Turn that shit down</i>.</p>
<p class="western7">In two steps Vic crossed to the stereo and
clicked off the power. Silence rushed into the room around him,
pressing against his eardrums almost painfully. Unbuttoning his
work shirt, he ambled into the kitchen in search of his lover, but
Matt wasn’t there, either. A pot of spaghetti sauce simmering on
the stove smelled heavenly, but there were no noodles draining in
the sink or any plates out to suggest dinner might be ready.
Heading down the hall to their bedroom, Vic called out again,
“Matty?”</p>
<p class="western7">His lover’s voice had a touch of playful
wickedness to it when he replied, “You’ll find me eventually.
You’re running out of places to look.”</p>
<p class="western7">“It sounded like a damn club in here with
that music,” Vic muttered, relieved. He dropped his shirt to the
floor and set to work on his belt buckle. “You had to turn it up so
loud?”</p>
<p class="western7">The buckle was undone and hanging from the
loops, the zipper on his work pants halfway down, when he turned
the corner and finally found his lover. Whatever else he might have
said dried up in the back of his throat and he swallowed, hard.</p>
<p class="western7">Matt lay on their bed, head propped up on
both their pillows, naked except for the dark shadows that pooled
at his crotch. The lamp on Vic’s side of the bed shed the only
light in the room, and it cast a golden glow across Matt’s olive
skin, turning it a gloriously dusky shade. Dark hair whorled down
his chest and arms and legs. Vic’s fingers ached to delve into the
disheveled curls on top of Matt’s head; his tongue wanted to lick
down all the hair between Matt’s crown and groin, then bury itself
deep into the musk of Matt’s sex.</p>
<p class="western7">Slowly the weariness Vic had felt all evening
while at work fell away, replaced with a hunger that had nothing to
do with the prospect of spaghetti. “Damn,” he managed. “You better
be waiting for me.”</p>
<p class="western7">“You better make it worth the wait,” Matt
replied.</p>
<p class="western7">With a seductive rustle of skin over satin,
Matt spread his legs invitingly. Shadows parted and Vic saw the
ruddy tip of his lover’s penis resting along his inner thigh. One
of Matt’s hands trailed over his hip, fingertips rubbing through
the thick thatch of hair at his crotch. Each circular movement
stimulated his dick, awakening it. As Vic watched, Matt traced his
forefinger along the shaft slowly. It stirred, thickening, and Matt
stroked from the tip back to the base, then down again. With each
pass he grew harder, his cock stiffening, lengthening.</p>
<p class="western7">Vic couldn’t look away.</p>
<p class="western7">Matt’s fingers pinched the tip of his dick
and he gasped. The sound sent a shiver of delight down Vic’s spine.
Suddenly he couldn’t move fast enough—he stumbled against the door
frame as he shucked off his pants and underwear together, almost
tripping in his haste to reach the bed. But when he tried to crawl
onto the mattress, Matt blocked him with a stubborn foot against
his knee. “Not so fast, sexy. You made me wait for you—”</p>
<p class="western7">“I was at <i class="calibre3">work</i>,” Vic growled. He
grabbed Matt’s foot in his hand and tried to shove it out of his
way.</p>
<p class="western7">But Matt was adamant. Pulling free from Vic’s
grip, he set his foot flat against Vic’s thigh to hold him back.
“Now you have to wait for me. I’m not ready yet.”</p>
<p class="western7">As if to prove this, he closed his fist
around his cock and squeezed. Another gasp escaped his lips; his
foot slipped slightly and his toes curled against Vic’s inner
thigh, digging into the sensitive skin.</p>
<p class="western7">Vic would be damned if Matt expected him to
stand there and watch as his lover got off without him. Already his
slumbering cock pointed Matt’s way, the thick shaft flush against
Vic’s pubic mound where it stood at attention. His balls hung heavy
between his legs, eager to be pleased. He grabbed Matt’s foot in
his hand and tugged. If Matt wouldn’t let him closer, then fine.
Vic would bring Matt to <i class="calibre3">him</i> instead.</p>
<p class="western7">Matt slid along the satin coverlet easily,
almost without friction. “Hey!” he cried, surprised, as Vic reeled
him in.</p>
<p class="western7">When his other foot came into reach, Vic
grabbed that, too, and used both legs to pull his lover closer. Now
Matt lay back on the bed staring up at Vic, who held Matt’s feet
both hands. The backs of Matt’s legs rested along Vic’s broad
chest, his ass butting up firmly against Vic’s groin. Though Vic
usually preferred to be on the receiving end during their
lovemaking, the feel of Matt’s taut buttocks on his cock made Vic
weak with desire.</p>
<p class="western7">Vic had Matt right where he wanted him. He
licked out and tasted the big toe on Matt’s left foot; another
shiver raced down his spine, electrifying his dick. If there was
one part on his lover Vic loved to love, it was Matt’s large,
perfect feet. His lover knew of Vic’s fetish and kept himself
groomed for Vic’s pleasure—there was nothing Vic loved more than a
footjob, his cock thrust between the soles of Matt’s feet, and many
times they cuddled on the couch with Vic lying on his back and Matt
on his stomach above Vic, arms crossed on Vic’s calves so he could
watch television as Vic rubbed his feet.</p>
<p class="western7">Now Matt’s feet were smooth in Vic’s hands,
the bottoms of his toes slightly pruny as if he’d taken a shower
earlier and the skin hadn’t quite dried completely yet. The tiny
ridges excited Vic—he let his tongue play over the underside of
Matt’s toes and grinned as they wriggled from the ticklish
sensation. Playfully Vic nipped at Matt’s slim third toe, which was
a little longer than the others and stood out above them.</p>
<p class="western7">With a snicker Matt tried to pull his leg
away and couldn’t. Vic had his forearms locked around Matt’s knees,
holding him tight, wrists pressing Matt’s ankles to his chest. As
he suckled the toes on Matt’s left foot, his fingers laced through
those on Matt’s right to massage them gently.</p>
<p class="western7">Matt was aroused by the gentle foot play, and
his cock jerked in his hands as he fondled himself. “Yes,” he
sighed, writhing on the bed. Each move he made pressed his ass flat
against Vic’s throbbing dick. Between them, Vic’s balls began to
ache. Matt arched his foot in Vic’s palm and spread his toes as Vic
licked between them. “Fuck me.”</p>
<p class="western7">Vic froze. They rarely switched it up during
sex—Vic liked the feel of a cock in his ass and little else got him
off. Matt enjoyed being on top, in control, able to bring a burly,
brawny man like Vic to release. The number of times Vic took the
lead could be counted on one hand. But the idea of turning the
tables this time excited Vic, and when he met Matt’s eyes, he saw
the same thoughts burning lustily in his lover’s deep green
gaze.</p>
<p class="western7">“Fuck me,” Matt said again. “There’s lube by
the bed. I got it out earlier.”</p>
<p class="western7">Sure enough, a half-used tube lay on Matt’s
bedside table. Vic reached for it with his left hand, unwilling to
release Matt’s feet. But he couldn’t quite reach so Matt bent his
knees, his feet slipping free to allow Vic a little extra
stretching room. Vic snagged the tube by the end that was already
crimped from use. It looked like a half-empty tube of toothpaste,
well-worn and folded to get every last drop squeezed from it.</p>
<p class="western7">When he turned back, Matt had placed the
soles of his feet on Vic’s chest. Matt’s toes tickled Vic’s nipples
as they fiddled with the small, silver hoops he wore pierced
through them. While Vic tried to unscrew the cap on the lube, Matt
spreading his knees apart to watch. The view Vic got when he looked
down was wonderful. Matt’s cock curled up at Vic like a crooked
finger calling him forward, his dark anus puckered like a
promise.</p>
<p class="western7">Vic fumbled a moment longer with the lube,
then thought <i class="calibre3">fuck it</i> and settled for squeezing the tube hard
enough to pop the cap off the end. It shot to the floor as cool,
clear gel splashed Vic’s hands.</p>
<p class="western7">Matt caught one of Vic’s nipple rings between
his toes and pulled gently. Delight shot through Vic, exciting his
dick. “Whoops.”</p>
<p class="western7">“This is normally your job,” Vic grumbled.
The gel warmed to his skin as he slathered it along his hard
shaft.</p>
<p class="western7">Using Vic for leverage, Matt pushed his feet
against his lover’s chest and rose his hips up off the bed. “Fuck
<i class="calibre3">meeee</i>,” he cried, his voice loud in their quiet
apartment.</p>
<p class="western7">“Keep it down,” Vic admonished, grabbing
Matt’s dick with his slick hand. “You want the neighbors to
hear?”</p>
<p class="western7">“That’s why the music was on.” Matt thrust up
into Vic’s palm, his feet flat against Vic’s chest. As Vic stroked
Matt’s length, his other hand slid between Matt’s legs to
distribute the lube there, as well. Matt fisted the satin coverlet
beneath him when Vic’s large thumb rimmed his tight asshole, then
eased inside. “Now! Please, now, Vic, <i class="calibre3">yes!</i>”</p>
<p class="western7">It was an unusual sensation for Vic, watching
his lover writhe beneath him. Every facial expression spoke of
Matt’s pleasure, and Vic loved seeing what his next touch might
bring. Hands grasping at the bed sheet, eyes squeezed shut, mouth a
perfect <i class="calibre3">O</i> of desire. “Yes,” Matt panted, his breath coming
in short, quick bursts as he fucked against Vic’s thumb. “Please,
yes, Vic, <i class="calibre3">please</i>.”</p>
<p class="western7">“Is that what I look like?” Vic wanted to
know. He guided his cock to Matt’s ass and pressed the tip against
the tight hole. His thumb popped free from Matt to trace the flared
head. With a gentle nudge of his hips, he pushed into Matt just
enough to cause his lover to cry out with lust. “Matty? I
said—”</p>
<p class="western7">“Just <i class="calibre3">fuck</i> me already!” Matt squirmed
beneath him, hungry with desire. Then he laughed breathlessly.
“That’s what you look like, Vic. Fuck me, fuck me! I never get
tired of hearing you say that.”</p>
<p class="western7">Confusion flickered across Vic’s face. “So
wait, you’re not asking for it?”</p>
<p class="western7">Matt’s reply was to relax his legs, which had
been holding Vic back. His feet slid up Vic’s chest and over his
shoulders, where Matt crossed his ankles behind Vic’s bald head.
The move pulled Vic closer and he knelt on the edge of the bed,
pulling Matt’s hips toward him as his cock shoved deep into Matt’s
ass. “<i class="calibre3">Yes!</i>” Matt cried again. “God, you’re so big.”</p>
<p class="western7">Spreading his knees, Vic took Matt’s weight
onto his thighs and thrust into him with slow, even movements. His
hands found Matt’s cock and balls, kneading them as they moved
together. Behind Vic’s head, Matt’s toes flexed to rub against the
base of Vic’s shaved scalp, a sexy sensation that made Vic harder
than he thought possible. Matt’s ass constricted around his dick,
pulsing, clenching, bringing Vic to climax.</p>
<p class="western7">Just before he came, he pulled out to shoot
his load onto Matt’s genitals. Cum beaded in the dark hair at
Matt’s crotch, viscous and thick. Matt’s hard cock caught the brunt
of it, the underside painted white. The fact that he was still
erect bothered Vic. “You didn’t get off.”</p>
<p class="western7">“Yet,” Matt amended. Lathering his dick with
Vic’s juices, he told his lover, “Crawl up on here, big boy. Let me
at that ass of yours.”</p>
<p class="western7">His ankles unhooked from behind Vic’s neck
and his legs dropped away on either side of Vic. Moving forward,
Vic straddled Matt and felt the familiar touch of his lover’s
fingers between his buttocks. He leaned down over Matt to claim his
first kiss of the evening. As Matt guided his dick into place, Vic
murmured against his mouth, “Fuck me, Matty.”</p>
<p class="western7">He felt more than saw Matt’s smile. Sweet
pain blossomed through Vic as his lover slid home. “I thought you’d
never ask.”</p>
<p class="western5"><br class="calibre2" /></p>
<p class="western">THE END</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-04-10 20:30:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-10 20:30:47 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-04-10 20:31:12 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-04-10 20:31:12 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:31:13 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-10 20:31:33 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:31:54 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-10 20:31:55 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-10 20:31:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:31:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:32:00 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:32:02 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:32:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:32:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:32:04 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-10 20:32:25 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-10 20:32:25 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-04-10 20:32:25 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@576ca85e
