2023-05-08 20:52:45 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-05-08 20:52:45 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-05-08 20:53:13 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-05-08 20:53:13 INFO  - Session id - ae2c2e32abcbe685f6d54fff08a4f43b33f40546
2023-05-08 20:53:13 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-05-08 20:53:13 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:15 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-05-08 20:53:16 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-05-08 20:53:16 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:16 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-05-08 20:53:18 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-05-08 20:53:18 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-05-08 20:53:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-05-08 20:53:23 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:24 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-05-08 20:53:24 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:26 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:28 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-05-08 20:53:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:31 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:32 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-05-08 20:53:32 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-05-08 20:53:33 INFO  - bookName: The Mystery of Mrs. Christie Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-08 20:53:33 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-05-08 20:53:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-05-08 20:53:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-05-08 20:53:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-05-08 20:53:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-05-08 20:53:39 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:53:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:53:47 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-05-08 20:54:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:54:09 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-05-08 20:54:09 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:54:30 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-05-08 20:54:50 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:54:52 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-05-08 20:54:52 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-05-08 20:54:52 INFO  - randomBookName: Heteroflexible
2023-05-08 20:54:52 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-08 20:54:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Heteroflexible'
2023-05-08 20:54:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-08 20:54:58 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-08 20:54:59 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:54:59 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:55:05 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-08 20:55:06 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:55:07 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:55:07 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-05-08 20:55:08 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:55:09 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-05-08 20:55:09 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-05-08 20:55:49 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-05-08 20:55:51 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:55:51 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-05-08 20:55:51 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:55:54 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-05-08 20:55:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-08 20:55:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-05-08 20:55:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-05-08 20:55:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-08 20:55:56 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 title="Chapter 1">Chapter 1</h1>


<p>I was walking along the Fifth Avenue while trying to dodge the throng of pedestrians that crossed my path while arguing on the phone with the last flirt that I had. Lately my conversations with the guys I knew through Findr, a popular dating app for men, had gone cloned. I was already scared. Indeed, in less than a week, my friends had already seen his profile again. He was looking for a march of all kinds.</p>

<p>Although I was not sure if he had cheated on me, I called to haul him over the coals. The guys on the Findr were all the same, but little by little I was getting to know them. They promise you the moon, they tell you that you are the only person in the whole world, that they have no eyes for anyone else. Eyes no, but the asshole is always available to anyone. As that old saying goes: Promise until you enter and once entered, goodbye to what was promised. That used to happen to me in recent months.</p>

<p>In general, when I started to get to know any guy, I gave him a chance and stopped trying to meet others. Specially to get to know it a little and see if it was worth it. But in recent times people were very desperate. They just wanted to fuck and leave without looking back. They looked like sex collectors. The problem with me was that for me it was not enough, so they tried to trick me with a fake romanticism into taking me to bed. Well, what Findr gave you, Findr took from you. Although I wasn’t going to fire him without putting on a good melodrama.</p>

<p>There I was, fussing and raising my voice when suddenly someone hit me on the elbow that almost throw my iPhone to the ground. I almost had an attack when I saw that it slipped from my hands, especially since it cost a thousand five hundred euros.</p>

<p>“Look where you’re going, asshole!” I yelled at him unceremoniously, completely upset.</p>

<p>A tall man with slick jet-black hair, shot me a furious glare with his emerald green eyes. The guy was dressed in a slim-fit, plain charcoal gray suit jacket, a spotless white shirt, an overpriced-looking Windsor knot tie, and black leather shoes. Surely, I must have run into a stockbroker or some asshole like that. However, his expression changed from violent to astonished.</p>

<p>“Ethan, is it you?” He asked between surprised and stunned. Ethan Devilliers?</p>

<p>I frowned and looked at him more closely. As he offered me a friendly smile, it dawned on me. Damn, it couldn’t be.</p>

<p>“Ian Summerson!” I exclaimed incredulously.</p>

<p>He was my best friend. The only one. The one of all the life. And I hadn’t even recognized him!</p>

<p>“The one and only”, he said jokingly.</p>

<p>“What are you doing here? It was like ... How long? Ten years or more that we didn’t see each other”.</p>

<p>“Yeah, man. Long time”.</p>

<p>I couldn’t help looking at him from top to bottom. He wore the suit very tight and you could tell that he was going to the gym because his biceps were marked. Oh dear, what I would give to see his naked torso. Just imagining it made me drool. Realizing that he was a bit uncomfortable from my voracious scrutiny, I asked him again:</p>

<p>“So, you’ve returned to New York?” I asked looking into his face.</p>

<p>“Yes, I’ve just been promoted to executive director and transferred to the headquarters”.</p>

<p>When we finished college, Ian found his dream job on the other side of the country, in Los Angeles. He couldn’t refuse that wonderful offer. Although that meant the end of our relationship.</p>

<p>If they had told me twenty years ago that we were going to separate so that we would never have contact again and end up as complete strangers, I would have laughed out loud. Ian was my neighbour and since I was born, we had been together. We were the same age. We went to the same kindergarten, the same school, the same institute and even the same university. Although I opted for pure letters while he was passionate about the world of numbers. Anyway, we got a student room for the two of us and spent every minute of the day together.</p>

<p>At the time, ten years later, we looked like strangers. He left for work and I found a job in our city. We strive to keep in touch. We called each other from time to time. We wrote to each other when we could. But life, obligations, routine, new social relationships, all those little things from day to day were blurring our bond.</p>

<p>I didn’t know what to say to him or where to start. So many years had passed without talking to him that I had millions of unanswered questions, However, he was ahead of me:</p>

<p>“And you, how’s everything going? Do you have a girlfriend, or are you still the golden bachelor?”</p>

<p>That question took me by surprise. Despite having spent so many years together, I never told him I was gay. Above all, because at that time I tried to do my best to appear “normal” and forced myself to enter heterosexual relationships that I knew deep down would lead to nothing. As soon as it got serious, I made up any excuse to run away without looking back. Ian, since he didn't know anything about it, he admired me and thought that he wasn’t willing for any girl to tie me up. How wrong he was!</p>

<p>“Yeah, something like that ...” I said as the words caught in my throat. “And you have girlfriend?” I asked quickly to shift the focus of attention.</p>

<p>“I have a wife, I have married!” He said in euphoric tone as he showed me the ring.</p>

<p>“I’m so glad, man!” I said with a frank smile. I saw him so happy that I was glad for him, even though I knew he was already caught. “And children, do you already have children too?”</p>

<p>“No, no ... everything in its own time. We just got married recently, we had to move here ... it was very fast. But we’re thinking about it”, he finished with a smile.</p>

<p>“I’m glad for you. I see you have a perfect life” I told him honestly.</p>

<p>“It’s not a big deal!” He began to laugh. “But you must meet Debby, my wife”.</p>

<p>“I will be delighted to meet her. It must be a very special person for you to have decided to settle down with her”.</p>

<p>“It’s incredible, you’ll see. Do you live in the area?” He asked me.</p>

<p>“In the centre? Impossible! My editor’s salary is not that big”.</p>

<p>“Did you finally get to be an editor? Have you achieved your dream?” He asked, surprised.</p>

<p>“Yes!” I commented more cheerfully. “It’s a small publisher, I don’t earn much, but we edit good books. I’m proud of what I do”.</p>

<p>“Congratulations!” He exclaimed sincerely. “Well, I must go. I’m late for a meeting”.</p>

<p>“It was a pleasant surprise to run into you here again”.</p>

<p>“Same here” he replied, smiling. “Aim my number on your phone”.</p>

<p>He came over to me and said his phone number almost whispering in my ear. He gave me goose bumps.</p>

<p>“Make me a missed call to record yours”.</p>

<p>I pressed the call button and waited for two-tone sounded. Ian’s cell phone started vibrating in his pants pocket.</p>

<p>“Great! We must meet so you can meet my wife. If you want, I’ll organize a dinner at my house”, he suggested.</p>

<p>“It seems magnificent to me. I’m looking forward to meeting her” I told him sincerely. In fact, I was dying of curiosity to know what kind of girl this handsome man in front of me had married.</p>

<p>“I’ll write you to specify details”. He looked me up and down with a very strange expression on his face, as if he felt some sexual attraction towards me, and added: “By the way, you look great”.</p>

<p>I blushed scandalously and looked away with obvious shyness.</p>

<p>“You are also very well” I replied. Although mine was not a simple compliment, but a declaration of full-blown love.</p>

<p>A radiant and dazzling smile spread across his face. He turned without saying anything else and left. He ran away. And there I was, standing while I gawked as his radiance faded through the crowd of passers-by.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-05-08 20:55:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-08 20:55:56 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-05-08 20:56:20 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-05-08 20:56:20 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:21 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-05-08 20:56:22 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:22 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-05-08 20:56:23 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:24 INFO  - Step 22 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-05-08 20:56:24 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-08 20:56:24 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-05-08 20:56:26 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-05-08 20:56:28 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-05-08 20:56:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:34 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:35 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:56:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:56:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:56:40 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-05-08 20:57:01 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-08 20:57:01 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@c4fe9da
