2023-07-02 13:18:10 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-07-02 13:18:10 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-07-02 13:18:35 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-07-02 13:18:35 INFO  - Session id - f84eb2f3590a0dc389fb53c588267817b14c3e92
2023-07-02 13:18:35 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-07-02 13:18:35 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:37 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-07-02 13:18:37 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-07-02 13:18:38 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:38 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-07-02 13:18:39 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-07-02 13:18:39 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-07-02 13:18:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-07-02 13:18:44 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:44 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-07-02 13:18:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:46 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:47 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:48 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-07-02 13:18:49 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:49 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:50 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:51 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:18:52 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-07-02 13:18:52 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-07-02 13:18:53 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-02 13:18:53 INFO  - bookName: Yoke Distributor: Bibliotheca
2023-07-02 13:18:53 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 2
2023-07-02 13:18:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-07-02 13:18:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-07-02 13:18:55 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-07-02 13:18:55 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-07-02 13:18:56 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:19:03 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:19:03 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-07-02 13:19:24 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:19:24 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-07-02 13:19:24 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:19:47 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-07-02 13:20:08 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:09 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-07-02 13:20:09 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-07-02 13:20:09 INFO  - randomBookName: The Maceos and the Free State of Galveston
2023-07-02 13:20:09 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-02 13:20:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Maceos and the Free State of Galveston'
2023-07-02 13:20:13 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-02 13:20:14 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-02 13:20:16 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:20:17 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:24 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-02 13:20:24 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:20:25 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:25 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-02 13:20:26 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:26 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-07-02 13:20:26 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-07-02 13:20:44 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-07-02 13:20:44 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:44 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-07-02 13:20:45 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:20:45 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-07-02 13:20:46 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:20:46 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-02 13:20:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:20:47 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Maceos and the Free State Of Galveston</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fm-head1">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</p>
<p class="noindent">First and foremost, I must acknowledge the Maceo family. When I first met Concetta Maceo, she had recently arrived on the island and was planning on attending nursing school, but something in me knew that she was right where she belonged, immersed in the modern incarnation of the family business, Maceo Spice and Import Company. She had no idea that I was already borderline obsessed with the Maceo history, but over the years she became a fan of my writing. Thus when she asked me to take on the task of telling the Maceo story, it was a dream come true. I am humbled and grateful to her for the invitation, because the world certainly needs to know about this remarkable group of people. I am beyond thrilled that I am the one who gets to share it.</p>
<p class="indent">To Vic, Ronnie, Frank and Marlina Maceo, thank you for your time and for sharing your stories with me. Your input was invaluable. And to the rest of the Maceo clan, living and deceased, whether I have met you or not, thank you for who you were and who you are and for contributing to such a fascinating history in your own way. I hope you have as much fun reading this as I had writing it.</p>
<p class="indent">This book would not have been possible without the help of my fiancé, Eric. Every couple has those little idiosyncrasies that make it work, and one of ours just happens to be a fascination with the history of organized crime. His brain is like a gangster encyclopedia, with knowledge surpassed only by the insane number of books he has on the topic. He was my co-investigator, helping me unravel the larger aspects of this story piece by piece, and without him, this book would not be what it is.</p>
<p class="indent">To D.B., the anonymous benefactor who let me spend hours photographing his wonderful collection of memorabilia from the Free State, thank you for helping me develop a visual component to this story that would never have existed without your assistance.</p>
<p class="indent">To my mom the English professor, who read to me every night as a child, without fail, that has made all the difference in my life. To my dad, who was so happy when I was old enough to accompany him to the gangster flicks and shoot-’em-ups that my mom did not want to go see. It may seem like the simplest thing, but it gave me a perspective and a love for this genre that I would not have had without him.</p>
<p class="indent">Lastly, sometimes soulmates have four paws and fur, and mine certainly does. Thank you, Elle, you make everything in life so beautiful.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-02 13:20:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:20:48 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-07-02 13:21:12 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-07-02 13:21:12 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:13 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-07-02 13:21:14 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:15 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-02 13:21:16 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:16 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-07-02 13:21:16 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:21:18 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:21:19 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:21:19 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-02 13:21:20 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:20 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Maceos and the Free State Of Galveston</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fm-head1">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</p>
<p class="noindent">First and foremost, I must acknowledge the Maceo family. When I first met Concetta Maceo, she had recently arrived on the island and was planning on attending nursing school, but something in me knew that she was right where she belonged, immersed in the modern incarnation of the family business, Maceo Spice and Import Company. She had no idea that I was already borderline obsessed with the Maceo history, but over the years she became a fan of my writing. Thus when she asked me to take on the task of telling the Maceo story, it was a dream come true. I am humbled and grateful to her for the invitation, because the world certainly needs to know about this remarkable group of people. I am beyond thrilled that I am the one who gets to share it.</p>
<p class="indent">To Vic, Ronnie, Frank and Marlina Maceo, thank you for your time and for sharing your stories with me. Your input was invaluable. And to the rest of the Maceo clan, living and deceased, whether I have met you or not, thank you for who you were and who you are and for contributing to such a fascinating history in your own way. I hope you have as much fun reading this as I had writing it.</p>
<p class="indent">This book would not have been possible without the help of my fiancé, Eric. Every couple has those little idiosyncrasies that make it work, and one of ours just happens to be a fascination with the history of organized crime. His brain is like a gangster encyclopedia, with knowledge surpassed only by the insane number of books he has on the topic. He was my co-investigator, helping me unravel the larger aspects of this story piece by piece, and without him, this book would not be what it is.</p>
<p class="indent">To D.B., the anonymous benefactor who let me spend hours photographing his wonderful collection of memorabilia from the Free State, thank you for helping me develop a visual component to this story that would never have existed without your assistance.</p>
<p class="indent">To my mom the English professor, who read to me every night as a child, without fail, that has made all the difference in my life. To my dad, who was so happy when I was old enough to accompany him to the gangster flicks and shoot-’em-ups that my mom did not want to go see. It may seem like the simplest thing, but it gave me a perspective and a love for this genre that I would not have had without him.</p>
<p class="indent">Lastly, sometimes soulmates have four paws and fur, and mine certainly does. Thank you, Elle, you make everything in life so beautiful.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-02 13:21:20 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:20 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-07-02 13:21:21 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:22 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-02 13:21:22 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:23 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-07-02 13:21:23 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:21:23 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-02 13:21:25 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:25 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Maceos and the Free State Of Galveston</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fm-head1">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</p>
<p class="noindent">First and foremost, I must acknowledge the Maceo family. When I first met Concetta Maceo, she had recently arrived on the island and was planning on attending nursing school, but something in me knew that she was right where she belonged, immersed in the modern incarnation of the family business, Maceo Spice and Import Company. She had no idea that I was already borderline obsessed with the Maceo history, but over the years she became a fan of my writing. Thus when she asked me to take on the task of telling the Maceo story, it was a dream come true. I am humbled and grateful to her for the invitation, because the world certainly needs to know about this remarkable group of people. I am beyond thrilled that I am the one who gets to share it.</p>
<p class="indent">To Vic, Ronnie, Frank and Marlina Maceo, thank you for your time and for sharing your stories with me. Your input was invaluable. And to the rest of the Maceo clan, living and deceased, whether I have met you or not, thank you for who you were and who you are and for contributing to such a fascinating history in your own way. I hope you have as much fun reading this as I had writing it.</p>
<p class="indent">This book would not have been possible without the help of my fiancé, Eric. Every couple has those little idiosyncrasies that make it work, and one of ours just happens to be a fascination with the history of organized crime. His brain is like a gangster encyclopedia, with knowledge surpassed only by the insane number of books he has on the topic. He was my co-investigator, helping me unravel the larger aspects of this story piece by piece, and without him, this book would not be what it is.</p>
<p class="indent">To D.B., the anonymous benefactor who let me spend hours photographing his wonderful collection of memorabilia from the Free State, thank you for helping me develop a visual component to this story that would never have existed without your assistance.</p>
<p class="indent">To my mom the English professor, who read to me every night as a child, without fail, that has made all the difference in my life. To my dad, who was so happy when I was old enough to accompany him to the gangster flicks and shoot-’em-ups that my mom did not want to go see. It may seem like the simplest thing, but it gave me a perspective and a love for this genre that I would not have had without him.</p>
<p class="indent">Lastly, sometimes soulmates have four paws and fur, and mine certainly does. Thank you, Elle, you make everything in life so beautiful.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-02 13:21:25 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:26 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-07-02 13:21:26 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:27 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-07-02 13:21:27 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:28 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-07-02 13:21:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-02 13:21:28 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-02 13:21:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:29 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>The Maceos and the Free State Of Galveston</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fm-head1">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</p>
<p class="noindent">First and foremost, I must acknowledge the Maceo family. When I first met Concetta Maceo, she had recently arrived on the island and was planning on attending nursing school, but something in me knew that she was right where she belonged, immersed in the modern incarnation of the family business, Maceo Spice and Import Company. She had no idea that I was already borderline obsessed with the Maceo history, but over the years she became a fan of my writing. Thus when she asked me to take on the task of telling the Maceo story, it was a dream come true. I am humbled and grateful to her for the invitation, because the world certainly needs to know about this remarkable group of people. I am beyond thrilled that I am the one who gets to share it.</p>
<p class="indent">To Vic, Ronnie, Frank and Marlina Maceo, thank you for your time and for sharing your stories with me. Your input was invaluable. And to the rest of the Maceo clan, living and deceased, whether I have met you or not, thank you for who you were and who you are and for contributing to such a fascinating history in your own way. I hope you have as much fun reading this as I had writing it.</p>
<p class="indent">This book would not have been possible without the help of my fiancé, Eric. Every couple has those little idiosyncrasies that make it work, and one of ours just happens to be a fascination with the history of organized crime. His brain is like a gangster encyclopedia, with knowledge surpassed only by the insane number of books he has on the topic. He was my co-investigator, helping me unravel the larger aspects of this story piece by piece, and without him, this book would not be what it is.</p>
<p class="indent">To D.B., the anonymous benefactor who let me spend hours photographing his wonderful collection of memorabilia from the Free State, thank you for helping me develop a visual component to this story that would never have existed without your assistance.</p>
<p class="indent">To my mom the English professor, who read to me every night as a child, without fail, that has made all the difference in my life. To my dad, who was so happy when I was old enough to accompany him to the gangster flicks and shoot-’em-ups that my mom did not want to go see. It may seem like the simplest thing, but it gave me a perspective and a love for this genre that I would not have had without him.</p>
<p class="indent">Lastly, sometimes soulmates have four paws and fur, and mine certainly does. Thank you, Elle, you make everything in life so beautiful.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-02 13:21:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-02 13:21:30 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-07-02 13:21:31 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-07-02 13:21:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:21:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:21:38 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-07-02 13:21:59 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-02 13:21:59 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2624aa0e
