2023-04-15 19:44:34 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-04-15 19:44:34 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-15 19:45:11 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-15 19:45:11 INFO  - Session id - b04e1ec1ab16a2a206148bea245f2d8e4a039d57
2023-04-15 19:45:11 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-15 19:45:11 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:13 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-15 19:45:14 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-15 19:45:14 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:14 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-15 19:45:15 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-15 19:45:15 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-15 19:45:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-15 19:45:20 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:20 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-15 19:45:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:22 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:23 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:24 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-15 19:45:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:26 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:27 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:28 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-04-15 19:45:28 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - bookName: The Montessori Baby Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-15 19:45:29 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-04-15 19:45:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-15 19:45:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-15 19:45:33 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:45:39 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:45:39 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-15 19:46:01 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:46:01 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-15 19:46:01 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:46:21 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-15 19:46:42 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:46:43 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-15 19:46:43 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-04-15 19:46:43 INFO  - randomBookName: Quicksand
2023-04-15 19:46:43 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-15 19:46:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Quicksand'
2023-04-15 19:46:46 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-15 19:46:48 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-15 19:46:49 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:46:49 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:46:57 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-15 19:46:57 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:46:57 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:46:58 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-15 19:46:59 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:46:59 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-15 19:46:59 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-15 19:47:19 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-04-15 19:47:20 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:21 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-04-15 19:47:21 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:22 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-15 19:47:22 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:22 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-15 19:47:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:47:23 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>Week 1 of Trial: Monday - 1, Quicksand: A Novel</title>
		<link href="prhStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="prhStyle-media-queries.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="Giol_9781590518588_epub3_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:9d899a25-27e4-4974-95ba-6dc2369fb47e" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body>
		<div class="page_top_padding" id="c01">
			<p class="week sans" id="p1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6"></span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7"></span>Week 1 of Trial: Monday</p>
			<p class="Day sans" id="p2">1.</p>
			<p id="p3">The first time I saw the inside of a courtroom, I was disappointed. We visited one for a class trip, and sure, I had already figured out that Swedish judges aren’t stooping old men in curly wigs and long robes, and that the defendant wouldn’t be a madman in an orange suit, in handcuffs, frothing at the mouth, but still. The place looked like something between a medical clinic and a conference center. We rode there on a rented bus that smelled like bubblegum and sweaty feet. The defendant had dandruff and pleated pants and was allegedly guilty of tax evasion. Aside from our class (and Christer, of course), there were only four other people there to listen, but so few seats that Christer had to get an extra chair from the hallway outside so he had somewhere to sit.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p4">Today it’s different. We’re in the largest courtroom in Sweden. The judges sit on chairs of dark mahogany with high velvet backs. The middle chair’s back is taller than the others’. That’s where the head judge sits. He is called the “chairman.” On the table in front of him is a gavel with a leather handle. Slim microphones stick up before each <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8"></span>seat like bent drinking straws. The paneling on the wall looks like oak, like it’s several hundred years old, old in a good way. There is a dark red carpet on the floor between the seats.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p5">Audiences are not my thing. I’ve never wanted to be St. Lucia or take part in talent shows. But it’s packed in here. And everyone is here because of me; I’m the attraction.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p6">Next to me are my attorneys from Sander &amp; Laestadius. I know Sander &amp; Laestadius sounds like an antique shop where two sweaty gay men in silk robes and monocles shuffle around with kerosene lamps dusting off moldy books and taxidermied animals, but it’s Sweden’s best criminal law firm. Ordinary criminals have a single weary public defender; my public defender is flanked by a whole crew of excited wannabe-suits. They work into the wee hours at a super-fancy office near Skeppsbron, have at least two cell phones each, and all of them except Sander himself think that they’re part of an American TV show where you eat Chinese food from take-out cartons in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way. None of all the twenty-two people working at Sander &amp; Laestadius is actually named Laestadius. Laestadius died, I assume of a heart attack, in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p7">Three of my attorneys are here today: Peder Sander, the celebrity, and two of his colleagues. The younger one is a chick with an ugly haircut and a piercing in her nose but no ring in it. Presumably Sander won’t allow her to wear a nose ring (“Remove that junk immediately”). I call <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_9" title="9"></span>her Ferdinand. Ferdinand is the type of person who thinks “conservative” is a curse word and nuclear power is lethal. She wears hideous glasses because she thinks it proves that she’s got the patriarchy all figured out, and she hates me because, in her opinion, capitalism is all my fault. The first few times we met, she treated me like I was a crazy fashion blogger with a hand grenade on an airplane. “Of course, of course!” she said, not daring to look at me. “Of course, of course! Don’t worry, we’re here to help you.” As if I would threaten to blow everyone to bits unless I received my biodynamic tomato juice with no ice.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p8">The other helper attorney is a guy around forty with a doughy belly, a pancake-shaped face, and a smile that says, “I’ve got movies at home that I keep in alphabetical order in a locked cabinet.” Pancake has a buzz cut. Dad likes to say that you can’t trust a person with no hairstyle. But I’m sure Dad didn’t come up with that on his own; he probably stole it from a movie. My dad really likes to deliver one-liners.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p9">The first time I met Pancake, he rested his eyes just below my collarbone, forced his thick tongue back in his mouth, and rasped in delight, “Little girl, what are we going to do? You look much older than seventeen.” He probably would have started panting if Sander hadn’t been there. Or drooling, maybe. Let the saliva drip from his mouth and stain his too-tight suit vest. I couldn’t bring myself to point out that I was eighteen.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p10"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_10" title="10"></span>Today, Pancake is sitting on my left. He brought a briefcase and a wheeled case stuffed full of folders and documents. He has emptied the case and now the folders are on the table in front of him. The only things he left in the case were a book (<i>Make Your Case</i>—<i>Winning Is the Only Option</i>) and a toothbrush sticking up from one of the little inside pockets. Sitting behind me, in the first row of the audience, are Mom and Dad.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p11">When I was on that class trip two years and an eternity ago, our class had been given a run-through beforehand, so we would “appreciate the importance” and “be able to follow along.” I doubt it helped. But we “behaved,” as Christer said when we left. He had been afraid we wouldn’t be able to keep from giggling and taking out our cell phones. That we were planning to sit there playing games and sleeping with our chins resting on our collars like bored members of Parliament.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p12">I remember Christer’s grave voice as he explained (“Hey now, listen up!”) that a trial is nothing to be flippant about; people’s lives are at stake. You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty. That’s what he said, several times. Samir leaned back as Christer spoke, balancing on his chair and nodding like he always did, the way that made all the teachers love him. Nods that said <i>I understand completely</i>, <i>we are on the exact same wavelength</i> and <i>I have nothing to add because everything you say is so smart</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p13"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_11" title="11"></span><i>You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty</i>. What kind of weird statement is that? Either you’re innocent all along, or else you did it, right from the start. Shouldn’t the court try to figure out which it is, rather than decide what happened? The police and the prosecutor and the judges weren’t there and don’t know exactly who did what, so how can the court make it up after the fact?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p14">I recall that I pointed this out to Christer. That courts are wrong all the time. Rapists are always going free. There’s not even any point in reporting a sexual assault, because even if you were force-fucked by half a refugee camp and you get an entire case’s worth of bottles shoved up between your legs, they never believe the girl. And that doesn’t mean that it didn’t happen, and that the rapist didn’t do what he did.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p15">“It’s not that simple,” said Christer.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p16">What a typical teacher answer: “That’s an excellent question…” “I hear what you’re saying…” “It’s not black and white…” “It’s not that simple…” Those kinds of answers all mean the same thing: They have no idea what they’re talking about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p17">But fine. If it’s difficult to know what’s true and who’s lying, if you can’t be sure, then what do you do?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p18">I read somewhere that “the truth is whatever we choose to believe.” Which sounds even more insane, if that’s even possible. Like someone can just decide what’s true and what’s false? Things can be both true and made up, depending on whom you ask? And if someone we trust says something, well, then we can just decide that it’s so, we can <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_12" title="12"></span>“choose that it’s true.” How can anyone even come up with something so idiotic? If a person were to say to me that he “chooses to believe me,” I would know right away that he’s actually convinced that I’m lying but he’s going to pretend otherwise.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p19">My attorney Sander seems mostly indifferent to all of this. All he says is, “I’m on your side,” while his face looks like a thumbnail. Sander is not, like, the excitable type. Everything about him is relaxed and under control. No outbursts. No feelings. No roaring laughter. Probably he didn’t even cry at birth.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p20">Sander is the opposite of my dad. Dad is far from the “cool guy” (his words) he wishes he were. He grinds his teeth in his sleep and jumps to his feet when he watches the national team play soccer. My dad gets mad, furious, at pedantic city employees, the neighbor who parked illegally for the fourth time in one week, incomprehensible electric bills, and telemarketers. Computers, immigration officers, Grandpa, the grill, mosquitoes, unshoveled sidewalks, Germans in the ski-lift line, and French waiters. Everything riles him up, makes him yell and shout, slam doors and tell people to go to hell. With Sander, however, the clearest sign that he’s pissed off, almost insane with anger, is that he gets a wrinkle on his forehead and makes a clicking sound with his tongue. And then all his colleagues become terrified and start stammering and looking for documents and books and other things they think will put him in a better mood. Kind of like how Mom handles Dad on the rare occasions he’s not annoyed but is acting perfectly calm and quiet.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p21"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_13" title="13"></span>Sander has never gotten mad at me. He’s never been upset over something I told him or grumpy about something I didn’t say or when I was lying and he knew it.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p22">“I’m on your side, Maja.” Sometimes he sounds more tired than usual, but that’s it. “The truth” is not something we talk about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p23">For the most part, I think it’s nice that Sander only cares about what the police and the prosecutor have proven. I don’t have to worry about whether he is planning to do a good job or is just pretending he’s going to. It’s like he’s taken all the dead and all the guilt and all the agony and turned it into numbers, and if the equations don’t add up, then he wins.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p24">Maybe that’s how it should be done. One plus one cannot equal three. Next question, please.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p25">But that’s of no help to me, of course. Because either something happened or it didn’t. It is what it is. All the rest is just beating around the bush, the kind of thing that philosophers do, as well as (apparently) a lawyer here and there. Constructs. “It’s not that simple…”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p26">But Christer, I remember how insistent he was before that court visit, he really did everything he could to get us to listen. <i>You are innocent until the court has ruled that you are guilty</i>. He wrote it on the board: <i>a fundamental principle of law</i>. (Samir nodded again.) Christer asked us to take notes. Copy it down. (Samir copied it down. Even though he hardly needed to.)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p27">Christer loved anything short enough to memorize that could be turned into a test question. The correct answer <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"></span>was worth two points on the exam we took two weeks later. Why not one point? Because Christer thought there were gray areas in memorized responses, that you could be almost right. <i>No, one plus one cannot equal three, but I’ll give you partial credit because you answered in the form of a number</i>.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p28">That visit to the court with Christer happened more than two years ago. Sebastian wasn’t there; he wasn’t in our class until our final year, the year he had to repeat. I liked school back then, pretty much, with my classmates and the teachers we’d had in different renditions since our elementary days: the chemistry teacher, Jonas, who spoke too quietly, never remembered anyone’s name, and waited for the bus wearing his backpack on his front. The French teacher, Mari-Louise, with her glasses and dandelion hair, who was always sucking so hard on a tiny sliver of a black lozenge that her mouth became as small and puckered as a wild strawberry. Shorthaired Gym Friggan, who looked like a freshly polished wooden deck: indistinct gender, a whistle around the neck, and broad, shiny, clean-shaven calves, always surrounded by the odor of gym socks and someone else’s sweat. Absentminded Malin, our bottle-blonde math teacher: dissatisfied and constantly late, off sick on average two days a week, and with a photo of herself twenty years slimmer, wearing a string bikini in her profile picture on Facebook.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p29">And Christer Svensson. Dedicated, in a let’s-meet-at-Mariatorget-and-take-a-stand sort of way; ordinary, in a pork-chops-and-mashed-potatoes-and-gravy sort of way. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15"></span>He thought rock concerts could save the world from war, famine, and disease, and he always spoke in that overenthusiastic teacher voice that no one should ever use for anything but getting a dog to wag its tail.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p30">Every day, Christer brought a thermos of home-brewed coffee to school, with so much sugar and milk in it that it looked like liquid foundation. He would pour his coffee into his mug (“World’s Best Dad”) and bring the mug to class and refill it during our lessons. Christer loved routines, same thing every day, favorite song on repeat. He had probably eaten the same thing for breakfast ever since he was fourteen: some sort of cross-country skier thing, like oatmeal with lingonberries and whole milk (“Breakfast is the most important meal of the day!”), I’m sure he drank beer and a shot on the side every time he met up with his friends (“buddies”), ate tacos with his family every Friday, and went to the neighborhood pizzeria (one with crayons and paper for the kids) and split a bottle of the house red with “the wife” when he wanted to celebrate something major and important. Christer had no imagination, he went on charter trips, he would never cook with coriander or fry things in anything but butter.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p31">We first had Christer as a teacher in our first year of upper secondary. He complained at least once a week about how the weather had gotten so strange (“There aren’t seasons anymore”), and every autumn he complained that Christmas decorations went up earlier and earlier (“Soon there will probably be a Christmas tree on Skeppsbron even before the summer ferries stop running.”)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p32"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"></span>He complained about the evening tabloids (“Why would anyone read that shit?”) and <i>Dancing with the Stars, Eurovision</i>, and <i>Paradise Hotel</i> (“Why would anyone watch that shit?”). Most of all he hated our cell phones (“Are you cows? With those chat apps dinging and jingling constantly, you might as well be wearing bells around your necks…Why do you bother with that shit?”). Every time he complained, he looked pleased, he thought he was youthful and “cool” (not just a Dad word), and that it was proof of how close he was with his students that he could use words like “shit” in front of us.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p33">Christer stuck a pouch of snus under his upper lip after each cup of coffee and collected the used ones in a napkin before throwing them in the trash. Christer liked things neat and tidy, even his garbage.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p34">And afterward, when the tax evader’s trial was over and we went back to the school, he was pleased. He thought we had handled ourselves “well.” Christer was always “pleased” or “concerned,” never overjoyed or totally pissed off. Christer always wanted to give at least partial credit on memorized answers.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p35">Christer was lying down when he died. With his arms around his head and his knees tucked up, more or less how my little sister Lina looks when she’s sleeping most deeply. He bled to death before the ambulance arrived, and I wonder if his wife and his kids feel like things aren’t so simple in reality and that I am innocent because no court has yet determined that I am guilty.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-04-15 19:47:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:47:24 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-04-15 19:47:48 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-04-15 19:47:48 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:49 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-15 19:47:49 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:51 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-15 19:47:52 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:52 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-15 19:47:52 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:53 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-15 19:47:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:47:55 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>Week 1 of Trial: Monday - 1, Quicksand: A Novel</title>
		<link href="prhStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="prhStyle-media-queries.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="Giol_9781590518588_epub3_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:9d899a25-27e4-4974-95ba-6dc2369fb47e" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body>
		<div class="page_top_padding" id="c01">
			<p class="week sans" id="p1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6"></span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7"></span>Week 1 of Trial: Monday</p>
			<p class="Day sans" id="p2">1.</p>
			<p id="p3">The first time I saw the inside of a courtroom, I was disappointed. We visited one for a class trip, and sure, I had already figured out that Swedish judges aren’t stooping old men in curly wigs and long robes, and that the defendant wouldn’t be a madman in an orange suit, in handcuffs, frothing at the mouth, but still. The place looked like something between a medical clinic and a conference center. We rode there on a rented bus that smelled like bubblegum and sweaty feet. The defendant had dandruff and pleated pants and was allegedly guilty of tax evasion. Aside from our class (and Christer, of course), there were only four other people there to listen, but so few seats that Christer had to get an extra chair from the hallway outside so he had somewhere to sit.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p4">Today it’s different. We’re in the largest courtroom in Sweden. The judges sit on chairs of dark mahogany with high velvet backs. The middle chair’s back is taller than the others’. That’s where the head judge sits. He is called the “chairman.” On the table in front of him is a gavel with a leather handle. Slim microphones stick up before each <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8"></span>seat like bent drinking straws. The paneling on the wall looks like oak, like it’s several hundred years old, old in a good way. There is a dark red carpet on the floor between the seats.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p5">Audiences are not my thing. I’ve never wanted to be St. Lucia or take part in talent shows. But it’s packed in here. And everyone is here because of me; I’m the attraction.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p6">Next to me are my attorneys from Sander &amp; Laestadius. I know Sander &amp; Laestadius sounds like an antique shop where two sweaty gay men in silk robes and monocles shuffle around with kerosene lamps dusting off moldy books and taxidermied animals, but it’s Sweden’s best criminal law firm. Ordinary criminals have a single weary public defender; my public defender is flanked by a whole crew of excited wannabe-suits. They work into the wee hours at a super-fancy office near Skeppsbron, have at least two cell phones each, and all of them except Sander himself think that they’re part of an American TV show where you eat Chinese food from take-out cartons in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way. None of all the twenty-two people working at Sander &amp; Laestadius is actually named Laestadius. Laestadius died, I assume of a heart attack, in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p7">Three of my attorneys are here today: Peder Sander, the celebrity, and two of his colleagues. The younger one is a chick with an ugly haircut and a piercing in her nose but no ring in it. Presumably Sander won’t allow her to wear a nose ring (“Remove that junk immediately”). I call <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_9" title="9"></span>her Ferdinand. Ferdinand is the type of person who thinks “conservative” is a curse word and nuclear power is lethal. She wears hideous glasses because she thinks it proves that she’s got the patriarchy all figured out, and she hates me because, in her opinion, capitalism is all my fault. The first few times we met, she treated me like I was a crazy fashion blogger with a hand grenade on an airplane. “Of course, of course!” she said, not daring to look at me. “Of course, of course! Don’t worry, we’re here to help you.” As if I would threaten to blow everyone to bits unless I received my biodynamic tomato juice with no ice.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p8">The other helper attorney is a guy around forty with a doughy belly, a pancake-shaped face, and a smile that says, “I’ve got movies at home that I keep in alphabetical order in a locked cabinet.” Pancake has a buzz cut. Dad likes to say that you can’t trust a person with no hairstyle. But I’m sure Dad didn’t come up with that on his own; he probably stole it from a movie. My dad really likes to deliver one-liners.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p9">The first time I met Pancake, he rested his eyes just below my collarbone, forced his thick tongue back in his mouth, and rasped in delight, “Little girl, what are we going to do? You look much older than seventeen.” He probably would have started panting if Sander hadn’t been there. Or drooling, maybe. Let the saliva drip from his mouth and stain his too-tight suit vest. I couldn’t bring myself to point out that I was eighteen.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p10"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_10" title="10"></span>Today, Pancake is sitting on my left. He brought a briefcase and a wheeled case stuffed full of folders and documents. He has emptied the case and now the folders are on the table in front of him. The only things he left in the case were a book (<i>Make Your Case</i>—<i>Winning Is the Only Option</i>) and a toothbrush sticking up from one of the little inside pockets. Sitting behind me, in the first row of the audience, are Mom and Dad.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p11">When I was on that class trip two years and an eternity ago, our class had been given a run-through beforehand, so we would “appreciate the importance” and “be able to follow along.” I doubt it helped. But we “behaved,” as Christer said when we left. He had been afraid we wouldn’t be able to keep from giggling and taking out our cell phones. That we were planning to sit there playing games and sleeping with our chins resting on our collars like bored members of Parliament.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p12">I remember Christer’s grave voice as he explained (“Hey now, listen up!”) that a trial is nothing to be flippant about; people’s lives are at stake. You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty. That’s what he said, several times. Samir leaned back as Christer spoke, balancing on his chair and nodding like he always did, the way that made all the teachers love him. Nods that said <i>I understand completely</i>, <i>we are on the exact same wavelength</i> and <i>I have nothing to add because everything you say is so smart</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p13"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_11" title="11"></span><i>You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty</i>. What kind of weird statement is that? Either you’re innocent all along, or else you did it, right from the start. Shouldn’t the court try to figure out which it is, rather than decide what happened? The police and the prosecutor and the judges weren’t there and don’t know exactly who did what, so how can the court make it up after the fact?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p14">I recall that I pointed this out to Christer. That courts are wrong all the time. Rapists are always going free. There’s not even any point in reporting a sexual assault, because even if you were force-fucked by half a refugee camp and you get an entire case’s worth of bottles shoved up between your legs, they never believe the girl. And that doesn’t mean that it didn’t happen, and that the rapist didn’t do what he did.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p15">“It’s not that simple,” said Christer.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p16">What a typical teacher answer: “That’s an excellent question…” “I hear what you’re saying…” “It’s not black and white…” “It’s not that simple…” Those kinds of answers all mean the same thing: They have no idea what they’re talking about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p17">But fine. If it’s difficult to know what’s true and who’s lying, if you can’t be sure, then what do you do?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p18">I read somewhere that “the truth is whatever we choose to believe.” Which sounds even more insane, if that’s even possible. Like someone can just decide what’s true and what’s false? Things can be both true and made up, depending on whom you ask? And if someone we trust says something, well, then we can just decide that it’s so, we can <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_12" title="12"></span>“choose that it’s true.” How can anyone even come up with something so idiotic? If a person were to say to me that he “chooses to believe me,” I would know right away that he’s actually convinced that I’m lying but he’s going to pretend otherwise.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p19">My attorney Sander seems mostly indifferent to all of this. All he says is, “I’m on your side,” while his face looks like a thumbnail. Sander is not, like, the excitable type. Everything about him is relaxed and under control. No outbursts. No feelings. No roaring laughter. Probably he didn’t even cry at birth.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p20">Sander is the opposite of my dad. Dad is far from the “cool guy” (his words) he wishes he were. He grinds his teeth in his sleep and jumps to his feet when he watches the national team play soccer. My dad gets mad, furious, at pedantic city employees, the neighbor who parked illegally for the fourth time in one week, incomprehensible electric bills, and telemarketers. Computers, immigration officers, Grandpa, the grill, mosquitoes, unshoveled sidewalks, Germans in the ski-lift line, and French waiters. Everything riles him up, makes him yell and shout, slam doors and tell people to go to hell. With Sander, however, the clearest sign that he’s pissed off, almost insane with anger, is that he gets a wrinkle on his forehead and makes a clicking sound with his tongue. And then all his colleagues become terrified and start stammering and looking for documents and books and other things they think will put him in a better mood. Kind of like how Mom handles Dad on the rare occasions he’s not annoyed but is acting perfectly calm and quiet.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p21"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_13" title="13"></span>Sander has never gotten mad at me. He’s never been upset over something I told him or grumpy about something I didn’t say or when I was lying and he knew it.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p22">“I’m on your side, Maja.” Sometimes he sounds more tired than usual, but that’s it. “The truth” is not something we talk about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p23">For the most part, I think it’s nice that Sander only cares about what the police and the prosecutor have proven. I don’t have to worry about whether he is planning to do a good job or is just pretending he’s going to. It’s like he’s taken all the dead and all the guilt and all the agony and turned it into numbers, and if the equations don’t add up, then he wins.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p24">Maybe that’s how it should be done. One plus one cannot equal three. Next question, please.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p25">But that’s of no help to me, of course. Because either something happened or it didn’t. It is what it is. All the rest is just beating around the bush, the kind of thing that philosophers do, as well as (apparently) a lawyer here and there. Constructs. “It’s not that simple…”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p26">But Christer, I remember how insistent he was before that court visit, he really did everything he could to get us to listen. <i>You are innocent until the court has ruled that you are guilty</i>. He wrote it on the board: <i>a fundamental principle of law</i>. (Samir nodded again.) Christer asked us to take notes. Copy it down. (Samir copied it down. Even though he hardly needed to.)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p27">Christer loved anything short enough to memorize that could be turned into a test question. The correct answer <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"></span>was worth two points on the exam we took two weeks later. Why not one point? Because Christer thought there were gray areas in memorized responses, that you could be almost right. <i>No, one plus one cannot equal three, but I’ll give you partial credit because you answered in the form of a number</i>.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p28">That visit to the court with Christer happened more than two years ago. Sebastian wasn’t there; he wasn’t in our class until our final year, the year he had to repeat. I liked school back then, pretty much, with my classmates and the teachers we’d had in different renditions since our elementary days: the chemistry teacher, Jonas, who spoke too quietly, never remembered anyone’s name, and waited for the bus wearing his backpack on his front. The French teacher, Mari-Louise, with her glasses and dandelion hair, who was always sucking so hard on a tiny sliver of a black lozenge that her mouth became as small and puckered as a wild strawberry. Shorthaired Gym Friggan, who looked like a freshly polished wooden deck: indistinct gender, a whistle around the neck, and broad, shiny, clean-shaven calves, always surrounded by the odor of gym socks and someone else’s sweat. Absentminded Malin, our bottle-blonde math teacher: dissatisfied and constantly late, off sick on average two days a week, and with a photo of herself twenty years slimmer, wearing a string bikini in her profile picture on Facebook.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p29">And Christer Svensson. Dedicated, in a let’s-meet-at-Mariatorget-and-take-a-stand sort of way; ordinary, in a pork-chops-and-mashed-potatoes-and-gravy sort of way. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15"></span>He thought rock concerts could save the world from war, famine, and disease, and he always spoke in that overenthusiastic teacher voice that no one should ever use for anything but getting a dog to wag its tail.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p30">Every day, Christer brought a thermos of home-brewed coffee to school, with so much sugar and milk in it that it looked like liquid foundation. He would pour his coffee into his mug (“World’s Best Dad”) and bring the mug to class and refill it during our lessons. Christer loved routines, same thing every day, favorite song on repeat. He had probably eaten the same thing for breakfast ever since he was fourteen: some sort of cross-country skier thing, like oatmeal with lingonberries and whole milk (“Breakfast is the most important meal of the day!”), I’m sure he drank beer and a shot on the side every time he met up with his friends (“buddies”), ate tacos with his family every Friday, and went to the neighborhood pizzeria (one with crayons and paper for the kids) and split a bottle of the house red with “the wife” when he wanted to celebrate something major and important. Christer had no imagination, he went on charter trips, he would never cook with coriander or fry things in anything but butter.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p31">We first had Christer as a teacher in our first year of upper secondary. He complained at least once a week about how the weather had gotten so strange (“There aren’t seasons anymore”), and every autumn he complained that Christmas decorations went up earlier and earlier (“Soon there will probably be a Christmas tree on Skeppsbron even before the summer ferries stop running.”)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p32"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"></span>He complained about the evening tabloids (“Why would anyone read that shit?”) and <i>Dancing with the Stars, Eurovision</i>, and <i>Paradise Hotel</i> (“Why would anyone watch that shit?”). Most of all he hated our cell phones (“Are you cows? With those chat apps dinging and jingling constantly, you might as well be wearing bells around your necks…Why do you bother with that shit?”). Every time he complained, he looked pleased, he thought he was youthful and “cool” (not just a Dad word), and that it was proof of how close he was with his students that he could use words like “shit” in front of us.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p33">Christer stuck a pouch of snus under his upper lip after each cup of coffee and collected the used ones in a napkin before throwing them in the trash. Christer liked things neat and tidy, even his garbage.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p34">And afterward, when the tax evader’s trial was over and we went back to the school, he was pleased. He thought we had handled ourselves “well.” Christer was always “pleased” or “concerned,” never overjoyed or totally pissed off. Christer always wanted to give at least partial credit on memorized answers.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p35">Christer was lying down when he died. With his arms around his head and his knees tucked up, more or less how my little sister Lina looks when she’s sleeping most deeply. He bled to death before the ambulance arrived, and I wonder if his wife and his kids feel like things aren’t so simple in reality and that I am innocent because no court has yet determined that I am guilty.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-04-15 19:47:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:47:56 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-15 19:47:57 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:57 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-15 19:47:58 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:47:59 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-15 19:47:59 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:47:59 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-15 19:48:00 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:48:01 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>Week 1 of Trial: Monday - 1, Quicksand: A Novel</title>
		<link href="prhStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="prhStyle-media-queries.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="Giol_9781590518588_epub3_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:9d899a25-27e4-4974-95ba-6dc2369fb47e" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body>
		<div class="page_top_padding" id="c01">
			<p class="week sans" id="p1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6"></span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7"></span>Week 1 of Trial: Monday</p>
			<p class="Day sans" id="p2">1.</p>
			<p id="p3">The first time I saw the inside of a courtroom, I was disappointed. We visited one for a class trip, and sure, I had already figured out that Swedish judges aren’t stooping old men in curly wigs and long robes, and that the defendant wouldn’t be a madman in an orange suit, in handcuffs, frothing at the mouth, but still. The place looked like something between a medical clinic and a conference center. We rode there on a rented bus that smelled like bubblegum and sweaty feet. The defendant had dandruff and pleated pants and was allegedly guilty of tax evasion. Aside from our class (and Christer, of course), there were only four other people there to listen, but so few seats that Christer had to get an extra chair from the hallway outside so he had somewhere to sit.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p4">Today it’s different. We’re in the largest courtroom in Sweden. The judges sit on chairs of dark mahogany with high velvet backs. The middle chair’s back is taller than the others’. That’s where the head judge sits. He is called the “chairman.” On the table in front of him is a gavel with a leather handle. Slim microphones stick up before each <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8"></span>seat like bent drinking straws. The paneling on the wall looks like oak, like it’s several hundred years old, old in a good way. There is a dark red carpet on the floor between the seats.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p5">Audiences are not my thing. I’ve never wanted to be St. Lucia or take part in talent shows. But it’s packed in here. And everyone is here because of me; I’m the attraction.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p6">Next to me are my attorneys from Sander &amp; Laestadius. I know Sander &amp; Laestadius sounds like an antique shop where two sweaty gay men in silk robes and monocles shuffle around with kerosene lamps dusting off moldy books and taxidermied animals, but it’s Sweden’s best criminal law firm. Ordinary criminals have a single weary public defender; my public defender is flanked by a whole crew of excited wannabe-suits. They work into the wee hours at a super-fancy office near Skeppsbron, have at least two cell phones each, and all of them except Sander himself think that they’re part of an American TV show where you eat Chinese food from take-out cartons in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way. None of all the twenty-two people working at Sander &amp; Laestadius is actually named Laestadius. Laestadius died, I assume of a heart attack, in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p7">Three of my attorneys are here today: Peder Sander, the celebrity, and two of his colleagues. The younger one is a chick with an ugly haircut and a piercing in her nose but no ring in it. Presumably Sander won’t allow her to wear a nose ring (“Remove that junk immediately”). I call <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_9" title="9"></span>her Ferdinand. Ferdinand is the type of person who thinks “conservative” is a curse word and nuclear power is lethal. She wears hideous glasses because she thinks it proves that she’s got the patriarchy all figured out, and she hates me because, in her opinion, capitalism is all my fault. The first few times we met, she treated me like I was a crazy fashion blogger with a hand grenade on an airplane. “Of course, of course!” she said, not daring to look at me. “Of course, of course! Don’t worry, we’re here to help you.” As if I would threaten to blow everyone to bits unless I received my biodynamic tomato juice with no ice.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p8">The other helper attorney is a guy around forty with a doughy belly, a pancake-shaped face, and a smile that says, “I’ve got movies at home that I keep in alphabetical order in a locked cabinet.” Pancake has a buzz cut. Dad likes to say that you can’t trust a person with no hairstyle. But I’m sure Dad didn’t come up with that on his own; he probably stole it from a movie. My dad really likes to deliver one-liners.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p9">The first time I met Pancake, he rested his eyes just below my collarbone, forced his thick tongue back in his mouth, and rasped in delight, “Little girl, what are we going to do? You look much older than seventeen.” He probably would have started panting if Sander hadn’t been there. Or drooling, maybe. Let the saliva drip from his mouth and stain his too-tight suit vest. I couldn’t bring myself to point out that I was eighteen.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p10"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_10" title="10"></span>Today, Pancake is sitting on my left. He brought a briefcase and a wheeled case stuffed full of folders and documents. He has emptied the case and now the folders are on the table in front of him. The only things he left in the case were a book (<i>Make Your Case</i>—<i>Winning Is the Only Option</i>) and a toothbrush sticking up from one of the little inside pockets. Sitting behind me, in the first row of the audience, are Mom and Dad.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p11">When I was on that class trip two years and an eternity ago, our class had been given a run-through beforehand, so we would “appreciate the importance” and “be able to follow along.” I doubt it helped. But we “behaved,” as Christer said when we left. He had been afraid we wouldn’t be able to keep from giggling and taking out our cell phones. That we were planning to sit there playing games and sleeping with our chins resting on our collars like bored members of Parliament.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p12">I remember Christer’s grave voice as he explained (“Hey now, listen up!”) that a trial is nothing to be flippant about; people’s lives are at stake. You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty. That’s what he said, several times. Samir leaned back as Christer spoke, balancing on his chair and nodding like he always did, the way that made all the teachers love him. Nods that said <i>I understand completely</i>, <i>we are on the exact same wavelength</i> and <i>I have nothing to add because everything you say is so smart</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p13"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_11" title="11"></span><i>You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty</i>. What kind of weird statement is that? Either you’re innocent all along, or else you did it, right from the start. Shouldn’t the court try to figure out which it is, rather than decide what happened? The police and the prosecutor and the judges weren’t there and don’t know exactly who did what, so how can the court make it up after the fact?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p14">I recall that I pointed this out to Christer. That courts are wrong all the time. Rapists are always going free. There’s not even any point in reporting a sexual assault, because even if you were force-fucked by half a refugee camp and you get an entire case’s worth of bottles shoved up between your legs, they never believe the girl. And that doesn’t mean that it didn’t happen, and that the rapist didn’t do what he did.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p15">“It’s not that simple,” said Christer.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p16">What a typical teacher answer: “That’s an excellent question…” “I hear what you’re saying…” “It’s not black and white…” “It’s not that simple…” Those kinds of answers all mean the same thing: They have no idea what they’re talking about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p17">But fine. If it’s difficult to know what’s true and who’s lying, if you can’t be sure, then what do you do?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p18">I read somewhere that “the truth is whatever we choose to believe.” Which sounds even more insane, if that’s even possible. Like someone can just decide what’s true and what’s false? Things can be both true and made up, depending on whom you ask? And if someone we trust says something, well, then we can just decide that it’s so, we can <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_12" title="12"></span>“choose that it’s true.” How can anyone even come up with something so idiotic? If a person were to say to me that he “chooses to believe me,” I would know right away that he’s actually convinced that I’m lying but he’s going to pretend otherwise.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p19">My attorney Sander seems mostly indifferent to all of this. All he says is, “I’m on your side,” while his face looks like a thumbnail. Sander is not, like, the excitable type. Everything about him is relaxed and under control. No outbursts. No feelings. No roaring laughter. Probably he didn’t even cry at birth.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p20">Sander is the opposite of my dad. Dad is far from the “cool guy” (his words) he wishes he were. He grinds his teeth in his sleep and jumps to his feet when he watches the national team play soccer. My dad gets mad, furious, at pedantic city employees, the neighbor who parked illegally for the fourth time in one week, incomprehensible electric bills, and telemarketers. Computers, immigration officers, Grandpa, the grill, mosquitoes, unshoveled sidewalks, Germans in the ski-lift line, and French waiters. Everything riles him up, makes him yell and shout, slam doors and tell people to go to hell. With Sander, however, the clearest sign that he’s pissed off, almost insane with anger, is that he gets a wrinkle on his forehead and makes a clicking sound with his tongue. And then all his colleagues become terrified and start stammering and looking for documents and books and other things they think will put him in a better mood. Kind of like how Mom handles Dad on the rare occasions he’s not annoyed but is acting perfectly calm and quiet.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p21"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_13" title="13"></span>Sander has never gotten mad at me. He’s never been upset over something I told him or grumpy about something I didn’t say or when I was lying and he knew it.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p22">“I’m on your side, Maja.” Sometimes he sounds more tired than usual, but that’s it. “The truth” is not something we talk about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p23">For the most part, I think it’s nice that Sander only cares about what the police and the prosecutor have proven. I don’t have to worry about whether he is planning to do a good job or is just pretending he’s going to. It’s like he’s taken all the dead and all the guilt and all the agony and turned it into numbers, and if the equations don’t add up, then he wins.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p24">Maybe that’s how it should be done. One plus one cannot equal three. Next question, please.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p25">But that’s of no help to me, of course. Because either something happened or it didn’t. It is what it is. All the rest is just beating around the bush, the kind of thing that philosophers do, as well as (apparently) a lawyer here and there. Constructs. “It’s not that simple…”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p26">But Christer, I remember how insistent he was before that court visit, he really did everything he could to get us to listen. <i>You are innocent until the court has ruled that you are guilty</i>. He wrote it on the board: <i>a fundamental principle of law</i>. (Samir nodded again.) Christer asked us to take notes. Copy it down. (Samir copied it down. Even though he hardly needed to.)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p27">Christer loved anything short enough to memorize that could be turned into a test question. The correct answer <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"></span>was worth two points on the exam we took two weeks later. Why not one point? Because Christer thought there were gray areas in memorized responses, that you could be almost right. <i>No, one plus one cannot equal three, but I’ll give you partial credit because you answered in the form of a number</i>.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p28">That visit to the court with Christer happened more than two years ago. Sebastian wasn’t there; he wasn’t in our class until our final year, the year he had to repeat. I liked school back then, pretty much, with my classmates and the teachers we’d had in different renditions since our elementary days: the chemistry teacher, Jonas, who spoke too quietly, never remembered anyone’s name, and waited for the bus wearing his backpack on his front. The French teacher, Mari-Louise, with her glasses and dandelion hair, who was always sucking so hard on a tiny sliver of a black lozenge that her mouth became as small and puckered as a wild strawberry. Shorthaired Gym Friggan, who looked like a freshly polished wooden deck: indistinct gender, a whistle around the neck, and broad, shiny, clean-shaven calves, always surrounded by the odor of gym socks and someone else’s sweat. Absentminded Malin, our bottle-blonde math teacher: dissatisfied and constantly late, off sick on average two days a week, and with a photo of herself twenty years slimmer, wearing a string bikini in her profile picture on Facebook.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p29">And Christer Svensson. Dedicated, in a let’s-meet-at-Mariatorget-and-take-a-stand sort of way; ordinary, in a pork-chops-and-mashed-potatoes-and-gravy sort of way. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15"></span>He thought rock concerts could save the world from war, famine, and disease, and he always spoke in that overenthusiastic teacher voice that no one should ever use for anything but getting a dog to wag its tail.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p30">Every day, Christer brought a thermos of home-brewed coffee to school, with so much sugar and milk in it that it looked like liquid foundation. He would pour his coffee into his mug (“World’s Best Dad”) and bring the mug to class and refill it during our lessons. Christer loved routines, same thing every day, favorite song on repeat. He had probably eaten the same thing for breakfast ever since he was fourteen: some sort of cross-country skier thing, like oatmeal with lingonberries and whole milk (“Breakfast is the most important meal of the day!”), I’m sure he drank beer and a shot on the side every time he met up with his friends (“buddies”), ate tacos with his family every Friday, and went to the neighborhood pizzeria (one with crayons and paper for the kids) and split a bottle of the house red with “the wife” when he wanted to celebrate something major and important. Christer had no imagination, he went on charter trips, he would never cook with coriander or fry things in anything but butter.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p31">We first had Christer as a teacher in our first year of upper secondary. He complained at least once a week about how the weather had gotten so strange (“There aren’t seasons anymore”), and every autumn he complained that Christmas decorations went up earlier and earlier (“Soon there will probably be a Christmas tree on Skeppsbron even before the summer ferries stop running.”)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p32"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"></span>He complained about the evening tabloids (“Why would anyone read that shit?”) and <i>Dancing with the Stars, Eurovision</i>, and <i>Paradise Hotel</i> (“Why would anyone watch that shit?”). Most of all he hated our cell phones (“Are you cows? With those chat apps dinging and jingling constantly, you might as well be wearing bells around your necks…Why do you bother with that shit?”). Every time he complained, he looked pleased, he thought he was youthful and “cool” (not just a Dad word), and that it was proof of how close he was with his students that he could use words like “shit” in front of us.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p33">Christer stuck a pouch of snus under his upper lip after each cup of coffee and collected the used ones in a napkin before throwing them in the trash. Christer liked things neat and tidy, even his garbage.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p34">And afterward, when the tax evader’s trial was over and we went back to the school, he was pleased. He thought we had handled ourselves “well.” Christer was always “pleased” or “concerned,” never overjoyed or totally pissed off. Christer always wanted to give at least partial credit on memorized answers.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p35">Christer was lying down when he died. With his arms around his head and his knees tucked up, more or less how my little sister Lina looks when she’s sleeping most deeply. He bled to death before the ambulance arrived, and I wonder if his wife and his kids feel like things aren’t so simple in reality and that I am innocent because no court has yet determined that I am guilty.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-04-15 19:48:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:48:01 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-04-15 19:48:02 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:03 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-04-15 19:48:03 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:03 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-04-15 19:48:04 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-15 19:48:04 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-15 19:48:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:48:04 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>Week 1 of Trial: Monday - 1, Quicksand: A Novel</title>
		<link href="prhStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="prhStyle-media-queries.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="Giol_9781590518588_epub3_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:9d899a25-27e4-4974-95ba-6dc2369fb47e" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body>
		<div class="page_top_padding" id="c01">
			<p class="week sans" id="p1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6"></span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7"></span>Week 1 of Trial: Monday</p>
			<p class="Day sans" id="p2">1.</p>
			<p id="p3">The first time I saw the inside of a courtroom, I was disappointed. We visited one for a class trip, and sure, I had already figured out that Swedish judges aren’t stooping old men in curly wigs and long robes, and that the defendant wouldn’t be a madman in an orange suit, in handcuffs, frothing at the mouth, but still. The place looked like something between a medical clinic and a conference center. We rode there on a rented bus that smelled like bubblegum and sweaty feet. The defendant had dandruff and pleated pants and was allegedly guilty of tax evasion. Aside from our class (and Christer, of course), there were only four other people there to listen, but so few seats that Christer had to get an extra chair from the hallway outside so he had somewhere to sit.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p4">Today it’s different. We’re in the largest courtroom in Sweden. The judges sit on chairs of dark mahogany with high velvet backs. The middle chair’s back is taller than the others’. That’s where the head judge sits. He is called the “chairman.” On the table in front of him is a gavel with a leather handle. Slim microphones stick up before each <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8"></span>seat like bent drinking straws. The paneling on the wall looks like oak, like it’s several hundred years old, old in a good way. There is a dark red carpet on the floor between the seats.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p5">Audiences are not my thing. I’ve never wanted to be St. Lucia or take part in talent shows. But it’s packed in here. And everyone is here because of me; I’m the attraction.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p6">Next to me are my attorneys from Sander &amp; Laestadius. I know Sander &amp; Laestadius sounds like an antique shop where two sweaty gay men in silk robes and monocles shuffle around with kerosene lamps dusting off moldy books and taxidermied animals, but it’s Sweden’s best criminal law firm. Ordinary criminals have a single weary public defender; my public defender is flanked by a whole crew of excited wannabe-suits. They work into the wee hours at a super-fancy office near Skeppsbron, have at least two cell phones each, and all of them except Sander himself think that they’re part of an American TV show where you eat Chinese food from take-out cartons in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way. None of all the twenty-two people working at Sander &amp; Laestadius is actually named Laestadius. Laestadius died, I assume of a heart attack, in an I’m-so-busy-and-important sort of way.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p7">Three of my attorneys are here today: Peder Sander, the celebrity, and two of his colleagues. The younger one is a chick with an ugly haircut and a piercing in her nose but no ring in it. Presumably Sander won’t allow her to wear a nose ring (“Remove that junk immediately”). I call <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_9" title="9"></span>her Ferdinand. Ferdinand is the type of person who thinks “conservative” is a curse word and nuclear power is lethal. She wears hideous glasses because she thinks it proves that she’s got the patriarchy all figured out, and she hates me because, in her opinion, capitalism is all my fault. The first few times we met, she treated me like I was a crazy fashion blogger with a hand grenade on an airplane. “Of course, of course!” she said, not daring to look at me. “Of course, of course! Don’t worry, we’re here to help you.” As if I would threaten to blow everyone to bits unless I received my biodynamic tomato juice with no ice.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p8">The other helper attorney is a guy around forty with a doughy belly, a pancake-shaped face, and a smile that says, “I’ve got movies at home that I keep in alphabetical order in a locked cabinet.” Pancake has a buzz cut. Dad likes to say that you can’t trust a person with no hairstyle. But I’m sure Dad didn’t come up with that on his own; he probably stole it from a movie. My dad really likes to deliver one-liners.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p9">The first time I met Pancake, he rested his eyes just below my collarbone, forced his thick tongue back in his mouth, and rasped in delight, “Little girl, what are we going to do? You look much older than seventeen.” He probably would have started panting if Sander hadn’t been there. Or drooling, maybe. Let the saliva drip from his mouth and stain his too-tight suit vest. I couldn’t bring myself to point out that I was eighteen.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p10"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_10" title="10"></span>Today, Pancake is sitting on my left. He brought a briefcase and a wheeled case stuffed full of folders and documents. He has emptied the case and now the folders are on the table in front of him. The only things he left in the case were a book (<i>Make Your Case</i>—<i>Winning Is the Only Option</i>) and a toothbrush sticking up from one of the little inside pockets. Sitting behind me, in the first row of the audience, are Mom and Dad.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p11">When I was on that class trip two years and an eternity ago, our class had been given a run-through beforehand, so we would “appreciate the importance” and “be able to follow along.” I doubt it helped. But we “behaved,” as Christer said when we left. He had been afraid we wouldn’t be able to keep from giggling and taking out our cell phones. That we were planning to sit there playing games and sleeping with our chins resting on our collars like bored members of Parliament.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p12">I remember Christer’s grave voice as he explained (“Hey now, listen up!”) that a trial is nothing to be flippant about; people’s lives are at stake. You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty. That’s what he said, several times. Samir leaned back as Christer spoke, balancing on his chair and nodding like he always did, the way that made all the teachers love him. Nods that said <i>I understand completely</i>, <i>we are on the exact same wavelength</i> and <i>I have nothing to add because everything you say is so smart</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p13"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_11" title="11"></span><i>You are innocent until the courts have ruled that you are guilty</i>. What kind of weird statement is that? Either you’re innocent all along, or else you did it, right from the start. Shouldn’t the court try to figure out which it is, rather than decide what happened? The police and the prosecutor and the judges weren’t there and don’t know exactly who did what, so how can the court make it up after the fact?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p14">I recall that I pointed this out to Christer. That courts are wrong all the time. Rapists are always going free. There’s not even any point in reporting a sexual assault, because even if you were force-fucked by half a refugee camp and you get an entire case’s worth of bottles shoved up between your legs, they never believe the girl. And that doesn’t mean that it didn’t happen, and that the rapist didn’t do what he did.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p15">“It’s not that simple,” said Christer.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p16">What a typical teacher answer: “That’s an excellent question…” “I hear what you’re saying…” “It’s not black and white…” “It’s not that simple…” Those kinds of answers all mean the same thing: They have no idea what they’re talking about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p17">But fine. If it’s difficult to know what’s true and who’s lying, if you can’t be sure, then what do you do?</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p18">I read somewhere that “the truth is whatever we choose to believe.” Which sounds even more insane, if that’s even possible. Like someone can just decide what’s true and what’s false? Things can be both true and made up, depending on whom you ask? And if someone we trust says something, well, then we can just decide that it’s so, we can <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_12" title="12"></span>“choose that it’s true.” How can anyone even come up with something so idiotic? If a person were to say to me that he “chooses to believe me,” I would know right away that he’s actually convinced that I’m lying but he’s going to pretend otherwise.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p19">My attorney Sander seems mostly indifferent to all of this. All he says is, “I’m on your side,” while his face looks like a thumbnail. Sander is not, like, the excitable type. Everything about him is relaxed and under control. No outbursts. No feelings. No roaring laughter. Probably he didn’t even cry at birth.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p20">Sander is the opposite of my dad. Dad is far from the “cool guy” (his words) he wishes he were. He grinds his teeth in his sleep and jumps to his feet when he watches the national team play soccer. My dad gets mad, furious, at pedantic city employees, the neighbor who parked illegally for the fourth time in one week, incomprehensible electric bills, and telemarketers. Computers, immigration officers, Grandpa, the grill, mosquitoes, unshoveled sidewalks, Germans in the ski-lift line, and French waiters. Everything riles him up, makes him yell and shout, slam doors and tell people to go to hell. With Sander, however, the clearest sign that he’s pissed off, almost insane with anger, is that he gets a wrinkle on his forehead and makes a clicking sound with his tongue. And then all his colleagues become terrified and start stammering and looking for documents and books and other things they think will put him in a better mood. Kind of like how Mom handles Dad on the rare occasions he’s not annoyed but is acting perfectly calm and quiet.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p21"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_13" title="13"></span>Sander has never gotten mad at me. He’s never been upset over something I told him or grumpy about something I didn’t say or when I was lying and he knew it.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p22">“I’m on your side, Maja.” Sometimes he sounds more tired than usual, but that’s it. “The truth” is not something we talk about.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p23">For the most part, I think it’s nice that Sander only cares about what the police and the prosecutor have proven. I don’t have to worry about whether he is planning to do a good job or is just pretending he’s going to. It’s like he’s taken all the dead and all the guilt and all the agony and turned it into numbers, and if the equations don’t add up, then he wins.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p24">Maybe that’s how it should be done. One plus one cannot equal three. Next question, please.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p25">But that’s of no help to me, of course. Because either something happened or it didn’t. It is what it is. All the rest is just beating around the bush, the kind of thing that philosophers do, as well as (apparently) a lawyer here and there. Constructs. “It’s not that simple…”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p26">But Christer, I remember how insistent he was before that court visit, he really did everything he could to get us to listen. <i>You are innocent until the court has ruled that you are guilty</i>. He wrote it on the board: <i>a fundamental principle of law</i>. (Samir nodded again.) Christer asked us to take notes. Copy it down. (Samir copied it down. Even though he hardly needed to.)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p27">Christer loved anything short enough to memorize that could be turned into a test question. The correct answer <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14"></span>was worth two points on the exam we took two weeks later. Why not one point? Because Christer thought there were gray areas in memorized responses, that you could be almost right. <i>No, one plus one cannot equal three, but I’ll give you partial credit because you answered in the form of a number</i>.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p28">That visit to the court with Christer happened more than two years ago. Sebastian wasn’t there; he wasn’t in our class until our final year, the year he had to repeat. I liked school back then, pretty much, with my classmates and the teachers we’d had in different renditions since our elementary days: the chemistry teacher, Jonas, who spoke too quietly, never remembered anyone’s name, and waited for the bus wearing his backpack on his front. The French teacher, Mari-Louise, with her glasses and dandelion hair, who was always sucking so hard on a tiny sliver of a black lozenge that her mouth became as small and puckered as a wild strawberry. Shorthaired Gym Friggan, who looked like a freshly polished wooden deck: indistinct gender, a whistle around the neck, and broad, shiny, clean-shaven calves, always surrounded by the odor of gym socks and someone else’s sweat. Absentminded Malin, our bottle-blonde math teacher: dissatisfied and constantly late, off sick on average two days a week, and with a photo of herself twenty years slimmer, wearing a string bikini in her profile picture on Facebook.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p29">And Christer Svensson. Dedicated, in a let’s-meet-at-Mariatorget-and-take-a-stand sort of way; ordinary, in a pork-chops-and-mashed-potatoes-and-gravy sort of way. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15"></span>He thought rock concerts could save the world from war, famine, and disease, and he always spoke in that overenthusiastic teacher voice that no one should ever use for anything but getting a dog to wag its tail.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p30">Every day, Christer brought a thermos of home-brewed coffee to school, with so much sugar and milk in it that it looked like liquid foundation. He would pour his coffee into his mug (“World’s Best Dad”) and bring the mug to class and refill it during our lessons. Christer loved routines, same thing every day, favorite song on repeat. He had probably eaten the same thing for breakfast ever since he was fourteen: some sort of cross-country skier thing, like oatmeal with lingonberries and whole milk (“Breakfast is the most important meal of the day!”), I’m sure he drank beer and a shot on the side every time he met up with his friends (“buddies”), ate tacos with his family every Friday, and went to the neighborhood pizzeria (one with crayons and paper for the kids) and split a bottle of the house red with “the wife” when he wanted to celebrate something major and important. Christer had no imagination, he went on charter trips, he would never cook with coriander or fry things in anything but butter.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p31">We first had Christer as a teacher in our first year of upper secondary. He complained at least once a week about how the weather had gotten so strange (“There aren’t seasons anymore”), and every autumn he complained that Christmas decorations went up earlier and earlier (“Soon there will probably be a Christmas tree on Skeppsbron even before the summer ferries stop running.”)</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p32"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16"></span>He complained about the evening tabloids (“Why would anyone read that shit?”) and <i>Dancing with the Stars, Eurovision</i>, and <i>Paradise Hotel</i> (“Why would anyone watch that shit?”). Most of all he hated our cell phones (“Are you cows? With those chat apps dinging and jingling constantly, you might as well be wearing bells around your necks…Why do you bother with that shit?”). Every time he complained, he looked pleased, he thought he was youthful and “cool” (not just a Dad word), and that it was proof of how close he was with his students that he could use words like “shit” in front of us.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p33">Christer stuck a pouch of snus under his upper lip after each cup of coffee and collected the used ones in a napkin before throwing them in the trash. Christer liked things neat and tidy, even his garbage.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p34">And afterward, when the tax evader’s trial was over and we went back to the school, he was pleased. He thought we had handled ourselves “well.” Christer was always “pleased” or “concerned,” never overjoyed or totally pissed off. Christer always wanted to give at least partial credit on memorized answers.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p35">Christer was lying down when he died. With his arms around his head and his knees tucked up, more or less how my little sister Lina looks when she’s sleeping most deeply. He bled to death before the ambulance arrived, and I wonder if his wife and his kids feel like things aren’t so simple in reality and that I am innocent because no court has yet determined that I am guilty.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-04-15 19:48:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-15 19:48:05 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-15 19:48:06 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-15 19:48:07 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:10 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:12 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:48:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:48:14 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-15 19:48:34 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-15 19:48:34 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-04-15 19:48:34 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@3d34f997
