2023-05-31 20:20:48 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-05-31 20:20:48 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-05-31 20:21:15 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-05-31 20:21:16 INFO  - Session id - 953c0f2c4e645fe8e5ebb493ad64df8e62211f4f
2023-05-31 20:21:16 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-05-31 20:21:16 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:18 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-05-31 20:21:19 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-05-31 20:21:19 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:20 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-05-31 20:21:22 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-05-31 20:21:22 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-05-31 20:21:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-05-31 20:21:29 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:30 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-05-31 20:21:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:34 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:36 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-05-31 20:21:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:38 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:41 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-05-31 20:21:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-05-31 20:21:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-05-31 20:21:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-05-31 20:21:47 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:21:53 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:21:53 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-05-31 20:22:16 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:22:16 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-05-31 20:22:16 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:22:38 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-05-31 20:22:58 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:01 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-05-31 20:23:01 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-05-31 20:23:01 INFO  - randomBookName: Nil
2023-05-31 20:23:01 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-31 20:23:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Nil'
2023-05-31 20:23:05 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-05-31 20:23:06 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-31 20:23:09 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:23:10 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:17 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-05-31 20:23:18 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:23:19 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:19 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-05-31 20:23:20 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:21 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-05-31 20:23:21 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-05-31 20:23:51 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-05-31 20:23:52 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:53 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-05-31 20:23:53 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:23:54 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-05-31 20:23:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-31 20:23:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-05-31 20:23:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-31 20:23:56 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-GB" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch004.xhtml</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="chapter-1" class="section level1">
<h1>Chapter 1</h1>
<p>A low rumble and a crack of lightning wake me from my extremely peaceful sleep. Jumping up, eyes wild, I look around me trying to stop the world from spinning. I blink a couple times my vision stabilises. Green, that’s all I can see no matter which direction I look. Everything was beautifully lush and vibrant. A breeze passes and I realise that I’m not wearing anything. Thank the heavens, no one’s around, I duck behind a tree to hide my nakedness. I need to find shelter and clothes as soon as possible. That’s odd, I can tell the sun is bright but the sky-high trees block its warmth. So what was with the lightning?</p>
<p>“Look up.”</p>
<p>Startled, I look around but no one’s in sight. Looking up, scanning the area just above my line of sight: there was a hill a little way to my right. If I can get to the top, I’d have a better view of my surroundings. Bouncing on the balls of my feet, I take off towards the hill. Pushing my body, I make it to the top. I inhale a deep breath as I look around. Great, just great. Trees and more trees still block my view. Something catches my eye not too far away from where I stood. I squint, trying to make out the hazy shapes. I’m guessing it’s a town or at least some people camping. That works for me. I just need to get there undetected and find something to cover my body before night falls and the temperature drops. Then maybe I can find something to eat. I actually almost forgot about food. Objective one: get to the grounds unnoticed.</p>
<p>Making my way up closer to the area I saw, I duck behind trees and bushes, trying to avoid getting nicked by the branches. I was right, it is a town. I wonder how many people live here. It doesn’t seem very big. Where is here anyway? Regardless, now I need to find something to wear. Spotting an old cabin, I swiftly slide through what looks like a back-door entrance. I let my eyes adjust to the dim light before slowly making my way further into the cabin. There really isn’t much in here, except for a simple cot, a small kitchenette and I’m guessing a bathroom in the far corner. Noticing a suitcase, I carefully tiptoe up to it. Grabbing it I make a dash to the washroom. Who knows when the owner will return? I was not about to be caught naked in their cabin. It took a couple of seconds to find the light switch. I look in the mirror and am pleasantly surprised I don’t look half bad. Right, clothes. Rummaging through the suitcase, I pull out a long drawstring skirt, a cropped top and what I’m praying is new underwear. I pull my braids to the side and shuffle quickly into the clothes, sighing in content.</p>
<p>Now I need to find something to eat. Maybe the kitchen has something I can take with me to go. I freeze when I hear a door open and close. Great, now how am I supposed to get out of here?</p>
<p>“Why don’t you come out and have something to eat, I bet you’re hungry,” a woman’s voice carries through the bathroom door.</p>
<p>I hold my breath. Can she tell I’m here?</p>
<p>“I know you’re in my washroom, don’t worry I’ve actually been waiting for you,” the woman continues.</p>
<p>Well, that’s not weird at all. I slowly open the door and take a peek with my head out. I spot the woman standing by the kitchen sink. She doesn’t really look too old but then she turns her head and she looks as young as me. I cautiously step out of the doorway, eying her warily.</p>
<p>“Come sit, you can stay as long as you need,” she tells me, waving her hand at a cluster of pillows on the floor that I hadn’t noticed before.</p>
<p>I nod and take a seat, crossing my legs, throwing the skirt over them. She hands me a cup of tea and an egg white sandwich. Why egg white? Wait, when did she even make these? I squint; my eyes trying to size her up as she takes a seat in front of me.</p>
<p>“Learn from her.” There was that voice again.</p>
<p>It’s an indescribable voice; not low but not high but not mid-range either. It’s not loud but not quiet, it seems to resonate within me. I tilt my head slightly to the side, to ask her to explain what she means.</p>
<p>“Ah, you don’t say much, eh?” She nods to herself.</p>
<p>“That’s fine, anyway I knew you were coming, I could sense your presence from earlier today.”</p>
<p>I nod and sip my tea. I guess she didn’t hear the voice. I feel like it should be weirder that she could sense I was here but I’ll let that go for now.</p>
<p>“I’m a seer; it’s a gift and a curse,” she mumbles the last part, looking away. “I have been for over 68 years now.”</p>
<p>I almost choke on my sandwich.</p>
<p>No way this lady is that old. She could easily pass for 20, max 25. I blink and regain my composure. The woman laughs.</p>
<p>“Yes, I know I don’t look it but I’ve been around a long time,” flipping her silver waist-length hair over her shoulder, she shifts onto her knees.</p>
<p>The movement was so fluid. I’m starting to think she isn’t even human.</p>
<p>“Do you have a name?” she asks. I open my mouth to answer but I can’t. What’s my name? Why don’t I remember my name? I close my mouth and shake my head.</p>
<p>“Do you know where you came from, perhaps?”</p>
<p>Once again, I don’t know.</p>
<p>Why don’t I know? That’s all basic information. Shouldn’t everyone know their name and place of origin? I stare at my lap, confused and shake my head again.</p>
<p>“No worries, we’ll give you a name and as I said before you can stay as long as you need. I brought a sleeping bag and some clothes for you.” She smiles and the faintest of wrinkles appear by her eyes. Odd.</p>
<p>“What’s your name?” I ask with a stronger voice than I thought would come out.</p>
<p>“Lydia,” she responds.</p>
<p>Her honey-coloured eyes sparkle as though she knows something I don’t. I blink, setting down my mug and stretch. I nod, waiting for her to say something else.</p>
<p>“Come now, you can rest and we’ll talk more when you wake up. In the meantime, I’ll go farther into town and grab some groceries and toiletries,” Lydia says as she pulls on a pair of worn combat boots and breezes through the door.</p>
<p>With a soft click, the door closes and I’m alone again. I sigh. Well, that was odd but she seems harmless. I am pretty tired. I get into the sleeping bag that was rolled out for me. In no time, I feel my eyes get heavy and my breathing slows down.</p>
<p>“Sleep,” that definitive voice tells me.</p>
<p>That’s exactly what I plan to do.</p>
<br /><p style="text-align: center;">*</p><br />
<p>“Wake up, but don’t leave the cabin,” the voice woke me up yet again.</p>
<p><em>What?</em></p>
<p>“Stay in the cabin.”</p>
<p>Interesting, the voice can hear my thoughts. Could it always hear what I’m thinking?</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p><em>All right, do you have a name then?</em></p>
<p>“That’s not important right now, someone’s coming around back.”</p>
<p><em>Maybe Lydia came back?</em></p>
<p>“No. They have a weapon.”</p>
<p>What kind of weapon, plus there is nowhere to hide in here but the bathroom.</p>
<p>I hear some yelling outside. It sounds like something is going on. Maybe a fight?</p>
<p>“Go to the door and when I say swing the mug you had earlier at about the level of your face.”</p>
<p><em>What?</em></p>
<p>No answer.</p>
<p>I get up and quietly go to stand beside the door not before grabbing the mug.</p>
<p>“Hold your arm straight, you already have basic combat skills.”</p>
<p>My eyebrows knit at this piece of information.</p>
<p>“Now!”</p>
<p>The door swings open and I swing the mug, hearing it crash into something.</p>
<p>Stepping back and looking down, the mug hit a man that would have stood just above my eye level. I doubt he’ll be out very long though. Just then he starts to stir.</p>
<p>“Run.”</p>
<p>I don’t have to be told twice. I take off through the front door.</p>
<p>I am not sure if more people are out there but the voice said to run so I did. Stopping at the end of the path from the cabin, I look back and see the man stumbling to the door. I have no idea which way will get me to safety. If I weave through the trees, it’ll be harder to catch me. Looking back once more, I see the man stand up straight. He is much buffer than I thought. He reaches behind him and pulls out a gun. Nope. Definitely not sticking around for that. I sprint through the trees. My bare feet sinking into the soft soil with each step. I don’t see any exits or streets.</p>
<p><em>Where did Lydia go? Is she safe? Do you want to tell me where to go?</em> I ask glancing around.</p>
<p>“Circle around and follow the street to the town. He’s close behind you.”</p>
<p>I nod.</p>
<p>My chest burns. I can’t seem to breathe in enough air. I see the street coming into view. I hear a gunshot and my head whips around to see behind me. I almost lose my footing. Stumbling a bit, I push my braids over my shoulder and gain momentum. No way am I dying today. I have far too many questions that need to be answered. Like, why am I being hunted? I push my legs, running down the street. I see the town come into view. Almost there. More gunshots and someone grabs me from the side. We tumble but I jump up, planting my feet. I widen my eyes. I didn’t know I could do that. I guess I do have some skill. I focus on the person in front of me and take a stance.</p>
<p>“Go for his midsection, he has a broken rib.”</p>
<p>Without hesitation, I dive for the man’s waist, tackling him to the ground.</p>
<p>He groans in pain, clutching his side.</p>
<p>“Get his gun.”</p>
<p>I grab the gun and take a few steps back, meeting his black eyes.</p>
<p>They look so empty like he isn’t himself. It’s kind of disturbing. Crinkling my nose, I look away.</p>
<p>“Shoot.”</p>
<p>I quickly look back, aim and shoot at his knee.</p>
<p>He cries out, rolling over.</p>
<p>“Run.”</p>
<p><em>Okay.</em></p>
<p>I take off again toward the town with the gun still in hand. What in the world is even going on?</p>
<p>“Hey!”</p>
<p>I look in the direction of the voice and see Lydia.</p>
<p>She’s holding a small dagger and a man is lying on the ground. I assume she just got out of the shop behind her. As I jog up to her, I eye her warily.</p>
<p>“It was self-defence,” she explains.</p>
<p>I nod slowly. I don’t care what it was. He’s dead and we need to leave. I look for a safe exit. Many more men like the ones following me were attacking the townspeople. Why?</p>
<p>“I don’t know where they came from but—” Lydia is cut off by sirens blaring down the streets surrounding the shops.</p>
<p>“Step back, the cops are here, we should be okay, let’s get back to the cabin,” Lydia finishes.</p>
<p>I step up onto the sidewalk and Lydia takes my gun and drops it in the bag she’s carrying along with the dagger she held.</p>
<p>“Come on,” she urges.</p>
<p>We curve around the building, taking the back road to the cabin. Lydia was a little too calm. Did this happen often here?</p>
<p>“No,” the voice says firmly.</p>
<p>She’s going to have to explain exactly what’s going on.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-05-31 20:23:56 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-05-31 20:23:57 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-05-31 20:24:21 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-05-31 20:24:21 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:22 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-05-31 20:24:24 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:24 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-05-31 20:24:25 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:26 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-05-31 20:24:27 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-31 20:24:30 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-05-31 20:24:30 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-05-31 20:24:31 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-05-31 20:24:33 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-05-31 20:24:35 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:38 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:40 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:24:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:24:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:24:44 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-05-31 20:25:04 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-05-31 20:25:05 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-05-31 20:25:05 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1e6f3060
