2023-01-18 03:57:48 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-01-18 03:57:48 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-01-18 03:58:15 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-01-18 03:58:15 INFO  - Session id - beca559ad67a89ffbbca3bb3292d1ec377235de5
2023-01-18 03:58:15 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-01-18 03:58:15 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:18 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:18 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 03:58:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-01-18 03:58:23 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:23 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-01-18 03:58:23 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:26 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:28 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-01-18 03:58:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:29 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:31 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000306
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 03:58:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000306'
2023-01-18 03:58:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 03:58:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-01-18 03:58:36 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:58:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 03:58:42 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-01-18 03:59:03 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 03:59:04 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-01-18 03:59:04 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:59:27 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-01-18 03:59:47 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:59:48 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-01-18 03:59:48 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-01-18 03:59:48 INFO  - randomBookName: The Pickwick Papers
2023-01-18 03:59:48 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-01-18 03:59:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Pickwick Papers'
2023-01-18 03:59:49 INFO  - Button 'Apply search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:59:50 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-01-18 03:59:54 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-01-18 03:59:54 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 03:59:55 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 03:59:59 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-01-18 03:59:59 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 03:59:59 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:00 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:00:01 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:02 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-01-18 04:00:02 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-01-18 04:00:15 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-01-18 04:00:16 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:16 INFO  - Step 12 - I change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-01-18 04:00:16 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:17 INFO  - Step 13 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-01-18 04:00:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:00:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:00:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:19 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Pickwick Papers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_9787" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class="translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">1</span></span>
The Pickwickians</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>The first ray of light which illumines the gloom, and converts
into a dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier
history of the public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear
to be involved, is derived from the perusal of the following entry
in the Transactions of the Pickwick Club, which the editor of these
papers feels the highest pleasure in laying before his readers, as
a proof of the careful attention, indefatigable assiduity, and nice
discrimination, with which his search among the multifarious
documents confided to him has been conducted.</p>
<p>‘May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. [Perpetual
Vice–President—Member Pickwick Club], presiding. The following
resolutions unanimously agreed to:—</p>
<p>‘That this Association has heard read, with feelings of
unmingled satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper
communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. [General
Chairman—Member Pickwick Club], entitled “Speculations on the
Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some Observations on the Theory
of Tittlebats;” and that this Association does hereby return its
warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., for
the same.</p>
<p>‘That while this Association is deeply sensible of the
advantages which must accrue to the cause of science, from the
production to which they have just adverted—no less than from the
unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in
Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and Camberwell—they cannot but
entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must
inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that learned
man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and,
consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the
advancement of knowledge, and the diffusion of learning.</p>
<p>‘That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken
into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the
aforesaid, Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other
Pickwickians hereinafter named, for forming a new branch of United
Pickwickians, under the title of The Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club.</p>
<p>‘That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval
of this Association. ‘That the Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus
Snodgrass, Esq., M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are
hereby nominated and appointed members of the same; and that they
be requested to forward, from time to time, authenticated accounts
of their journeys and investigations, of their observations of
character and manners, and of the whole of their adventures,
together with all tales and papers to which local scenery or
associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stationed in
London.</p>
<p>‘That this Association cordially recognises the principle of
every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own
travelling expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the
members of the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length
of time they please, upon the same terms.</p>
<p>‘That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and
are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of
their letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been
deliberated upon by this Association: that this Association
considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it
emanated, and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence
therein.’</p>
<p>A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are
indebted for the following account—a casual observer might possibly
have remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head, and circular
spectacles, which were intently turned towards his (the
secretary’s) face, during the reading of the above resolutions: to
those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working
beneath that forehead, and that the beaming eyes of Pickwick were
twinkling behind those glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting
one. There sat the man who had traced to their source the mighty
ponds of Hampstead, and agitated the scientific world with his
Theory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved as the deep waters of the
one on a frosty day, or as a solitary specimen of the other in the
inmost recesses of an earthen jar. And how much more interesting
did the spectacle become, when, starting into full life and
animation, as a simultaneous call for ‘Pickwick’ burst from his
followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted into the Windsor
chair, on which he had been previously seated, and addressed the
club himself had founded. What a study for an artist did that
exciting scene present! The eloquent Pickwick, with one hand
gracefully concealed behind his coat tails, and the other waving in
air to assist his glowing declamation; his elevated position
revealing those tights and gaiters, which, had they clothed an
ordinary man, might have passed without observation, but which,
when Pickwick clothed them—if we may use the expression—inspired
involuntary awe and respect; surrounded by the men who had
volunteered to share the perils of his travels, and who were
destined to participate in the glories of his discoveries. On his
right sat Mr. Tracy Tupman—the too susceptible Tupman, who to the
wisdom and experience of maturer years superadded the enthusiasm
and ardour of a boy in the most interesting and pardonable of human
weaknesses—love. Time and feeding had expanded that once romantic
form; the black silk waistcoat had become more and more developed;
inch by inch had the gold watch–chain beneath it disappeared from
within the range of Tupman’s vision; and gradually had the
capacious chin encroached upon the borders of the white cravat: but
the soul of Tupman had known no change—admiration of the fair sex
was still its ruling passion. On the left of his great leader sat
the poetic Snodgrass, and near him again the sporting Winkle; the
former poetically enveloped in a mysterious blue cloak with a
canine–skin collar, and the latter communicating additional lustre
to a new green shooting–coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely–fitted
drabs.</p>
<p>Mr. Pickwick’s oration upon this occasion, together with the
debate thereon, is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both
bear a strong affinity to the discussions of other celebrated
bodies; and, as it is always interesting to trace a resemblance
between the proceedings of great men, we transfer the entry to
these pages.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was dear
to the heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the heart of his
friend Snodgrass; the fame of conquest was equally dear to his
friend Tupman; and the desire of earning fame in the sports of the
field, the air, and the water was uppermost in the breast of his
friend Winkle. He (Mr. Pickwick) would not deny that he was
influenced by human passions and human feelings (cheers)—possibly
by human weaknesses (loud cries of “No”); but this he would say,
that if ever the fire of self–importance broke out in his bosom,
the desire to benefit the human race in preference effectually
quenched it. The praise of mankind was his swing; philanthropy was
his insurance office. (Vehement cheering.) He had felt some
pride—he acknowledged it freely, and let his enemies make the most
of it—he had felt some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian
Theory to the world; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry
of “It is,” and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of
that honourable Pickwickian whose voice he had just heard—it was
celebrated; but if the fame of that treatise were to extend to the
farthest confines of the known world, the pride with which he
should reflect on the authorship of that production would be as
nothing compared with the pride with which he looked around him, on
this, the proudest moment of his existence. (Cheers.) He was a
humble individual. (“No, no.”) Still he could not but feel that
they had selected him for a service of great honour, and of some
danger. Travelling was in a troubled state, and the minds of
coachmen were unsettled. Let them look abroad and contemplate the
scenes which were enacting around them. Stage–coaches were
upsetting in all directions, horses were bolting, boats were
overturning, and boilers were bursting. (Cheers—a voice “No.”) No!
(Cheers.) Let that honourable Pickwickian who cried “No” so loudly
come forward and deny it, if he could. (Cheers.) Who was it that
cried “No”? (Enthusiastic cheering.) Was it some vain and
disappointed man—he would not say haberdasher (loud cheers)—who,
jealous of the praise which had been—perhaps undeservedly—bestowed
on his (Mr. Pickwick’s) researches, and smarting under the censure
which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at rivalry, now
took this vile and calumnious mode of—</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honourable
Pickwickian allude to him? (Cries of “Order,” “Chair,” “Yes,” “No,”
“Go on,” “Leave off,” etc.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick would not put up to be put down by clamour. He had
alluded to the honourable gentleman. (Great excitement.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton would only say then, that he repelled the hon.
gent.‘s false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt.
(Great cheering.) The hon. gent. was a humbug. (Immense confusion,
and loud cries of “Chair,” and “Order.”)</p>
<p>‘Mr. A. Snodgrass rose to order. He threw himself upon the
chair. (Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest
between two members of that club should be allowed to continue.
(Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘The chairman was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw
the expression he had just made use of.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite
sure he would not.</p>
<p>‘The chairman felt it his imperative duty to demand of the
honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had
just escaped him in a common sense.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton had no hesitation in saying that he had not—he had
used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) He was bound
to acknowledge that, personally, he entertained the highest regard
and esteem for the honourable gentleman; he had merely considered
him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view. (Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and full
explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at once
understood, that his own observations had been merely intended to
bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers.)’</p>
<p>Here the entry terminates, as we have no doubt the debate did
also, after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intelligible
point. We have no official statement of the facts which the reader
will find recorded in the next chapter, but they have been
carefully collated from letters and other ms. authorities, so
unquestionably genuine as to justify their narration in a connected
form.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:00:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:19 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-01-18 04:00:43 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-01-18 04:00:43 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:45 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-01-18 04:00:45 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:45 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:00:46 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:47 INFO  - Step 18 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-01-18 04:00:48 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:00:49 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:00:50 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:00:50 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:00:51 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:51 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Pickwick Papers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_9787" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class="translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">1</span></span>
The Pickwickians</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>The first ray of light which illumines the gloom, and converts
into a dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier
history of the public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear
to be involved, is derived from the perusal of the following entry
in the Transactions of the Pickwick Club, which the editor of these
papers feels the highest pleasure in laying before his readers, as
a proof of the careful attention, indefatigable assiduity, and nice
discrimination, with which his search among the multifarious
documents confided to him has been conducted.</p>
<p>‘May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. [Perpetual
Vice–President—Member Pickwick Club], presiding. The following
resolutions unanimously agreed to:—</p>
<p>‘That this Association has heard read, with feelings of
unmingled satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper
communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. [General
Chairman—Member Pickwick Club], entitled “Speculations on the
Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some Observations on the Theory
of Tittlebats;” and that this Association does hereby return its
warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., for
the same.</p>
<p>‘That while this Association is deeply sensible of the
advantages which must accrue to the cause of science, from the
production to which they have just adverted—no less than from the
unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in
Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and Camberwell—they cannot but
entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must
inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that learned
man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and,
consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the
advancement of knowledge, and the diffusion of learning.</p>
<p>‘That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken
into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the
aforesaid, Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other
Pickwickians hereinafter named, for forming a new branch of United
Pickwickians, under the title of The Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club.</p>
<p>‘That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval
of this Association. ‘That the Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus
Snodgrass, Esq., M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are
hereby nominated and appointed members of the same; and that they
be requested to forward, from time to time, authenticated accounts
of their journeys and investigations, of their observations of
character and manners, and of the whole of their adventures,
together with all tales and papers to which local scenery or
associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stationed in
London.</p>
<p>‘That this Association cordially recognises the principle of
every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own
travelling expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the
members of the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length
of time they please, upon the same terms.</p>
<p>‘That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and
are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of
their letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been
deliberated upon by this Association: that this Association
considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it
emanated, and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence
therein.’</p>
<p>A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are
indebted for the following account—a casual observer might possibly
have remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head, and circular
spectacles, which were intently turned towards his (the
secretary’s) face, during the reading of the above resolutions: to
those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working
beneath that forehead, and that the beaming eyes of Pickwick were
twinkling behind those glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting
one. There sat the man who had traced to their source the mighty
ponds of Hampstead, and agitated the scientific world with his
Theory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved as the deep waters of the
one on a frosty day, or as a solitary specimen of the other in the
inmost recesses of an earthen jar. And how much more interesting
did the spectacle become, when, starting into full life and
animation, as a simultaneous call for ‘Pickwick’ burst from his
followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted into the Windsor
chair, on which he had been previously seated, and addressed the
club himself had founded. What a study for an artist did that
exciting scene present! The eloquent Pickwick, with one hand
gracefully concealed behind his coat tails, and the other waving in
air to assist his glowing declamation; his elevated position
revealing those tights and gaiters, which, had they clothed an
ordinary man, might have passed without observation, but which,
when Pickwick clothed them—if we may use the expression—inspired
involuntary awe and respect; surrounded by the men who had
volunteered to share the perils of his travels, and who were
destined to participate in the glories of his discoveries. On his
right sat Mr. Tracy Tupman—the too susceptible Tupman, who to the
wisdom and experience of maturer years superadded the enthusiasm
and ardour of a boy in the most interesting and pardonable of human
weaknesses—love. Time and feeding had expanded that once romantic
form; the black silk waistcoat had become more and more developed;
inch by inch had the gold watch–chain beneath it disappeared from
within the range of Tupman’s vision; and gradually had the
capacious chin encroached upon the borders of the white cravat: but
the soul of Tupman had known no change—admiration of the fair sex
was still its ruling passion. On the left of his great leader sat
the poetic Snodgrass, and near him again the sporting Winkle; the
former poetically enveloped in a mysterious blue cloak with a
canine–skin collar, and the latter communicating additional lustre
to a new green shooting–coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely–fitted
drabs.</p>
<p>Mr. Pickwick’s oration upon this occasion, together with the
debate thereon, is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both
bear a strong affinity to the discussions of other celebrated
bodies; and, as it is always interesting to trace a resemblance
between the proceedings of great men, we transfer the entry to
these pages.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was dear
to the heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the heart of his
friend Snodgrass; the fame of conquest was equally dear to his
friend Tupman; and the desire of earning fame in the sports of the
field, the air, and the water was uppermost in the breast of his
friend Winkle. He (Mr. Pickwick) would not deny that he was
influenced by human passions and human feelings (cheers)—possibly
by human weaknesses (loud cries of “No”); but this he would say,
that if ever the fire of self–importance broke out in his bosom,
the desire to benefit the human race in preference effectually
quenched it. The praise of mankind was his swing; philanthropy was
his insurance office. (Vehement cheering.) He had felt some
pride—he acknowledged it freely, and let his enemies make the most
of it—he had felt some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian
Theory to the world; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry
of “It is,” and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of
that honourable Pickwickian whose voice he had just heard—it was
celebrated; but if the fame of that treatise were to extend to the
farthest confines of the known world, the pride with which he
should reflect on the authorship of that production would be as
nothing compared with the pride with which he looked around him, on
this, the proudest moment of his existence. (Cheers.) He was a
humble individual. (“No, no.”) Still he could not but feel that
they had selected him for a service of great honour, and of some
danger. Travelling was in a troubled state, and the minds of
coachmen were unsettled. Let them look abroad and contemplate the
scenes which were enacting around them. Stage–coaches were
upsetting in all directions, horses were bolting, boats were
overturning, and boilers were bursting. (Cheers—a voice “No.”) No!
(Cheers.) Let that honourable Pickwickian who cried “No” so loudly
come forward and deny it, if he could. (Cheers.) Who was it that
cried “No”? (Enthusiastic cheering.) Was it some vain and
disappointed man—he would not say haberdasher (loud cheers)—who,
jealous of the praise which had been—perhaps undeservedly—bestowed
on his (Mr. Pickwick’s) researches, and smarting under the censure
which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at rivalry, now
took this vile and calumnious mode of—</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honourable
Pickwickian allude to him? (Cries of “Order,” “Chair,” “Yes,” “No,”
“Go on,” “Leave off,” etc.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick would not put up to be put down by clamour. He had
alluded to the honourable gentleman. (Great excitement.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton would only say then, that he repelled the hon.
gent.‘s false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt.
(Great cheering.) The hon. gent. was a humbug. (Immense confusion,
and loud cries of “Chair,” and “Order.”)</p>
<p>‘Mr. A. Snodgrass rose to order. He threw himself upon the
chair. (Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest
between two members of that club should be allowed to continue.
(Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘The chairman was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw
the expression he had just made use of.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite
sure he would not.</p>
<p>‘The chairman felt it his imperative duty to demand of the
honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had
just escaped him in a common sense.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton had no hesitation in saying that he had not—he had
used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) He was bound
to acknowledge that, personally, he entertained the highest regard
and esteem for the honourable gentleman; he had merely considered
him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view. (Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and full
explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at once
understood, that his own observations had been merely intended to
bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers.)’</p>
<p>Here the entry terminates, as we have no doubt the debate did
also, after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intelligible
point. We have no official statement of the facts which the reader
will find recorded in the next chapter, but they have been
carefully collated from letters and other ms. authorities, so
unquestionably genuine as to justify their narration in a connected
form.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:00:51 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:51 INFO  - Step 19 - I return to previous screen from epub
2023-01-18 04:00:52 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:52 INFO  - Step 20 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:00:54 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:56 INFO  - Step 21 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-01-18 04:00:57 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:00:57 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:00:57 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:57 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Pickwick Papers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_9787" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class="translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">1</span></span>
The Pickwickians</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>The first ray of light which illumines the gloom, and converts
into a dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier
history of the public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear
to be involved, is derived from the perusal of the following entry
in the Transactions of the Pickwick Club, which the editor of these
papers feels the highest pleasure in laying before his readers, as
a proof of the careful attention, indefatigable assiduity, and nice
discrimination, with which his search among the multifarious
documents confided to him has been conducted.</p>
<p>‘May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. [Perpetual
Vice–President—Member Pickwick Club], presiding. The following
resolutions unanimously agreed to:—</p>
<p>‘That this Association has heard read, with feelings of
unmingled satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper
communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. [General
Chairman—Member Pickwick Club], entitled “Speculations on the
Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some Observations on the Theory
of Tittlebats;” and that this Association does hereby return its
warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., for
the same.</p>
<p>‘That while this Association is deeply sensible of the
advantages which must accrue to the cause of science, from the
production to which they have just adverted—no less than from the
unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in
Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and Camberwell—they cannot but
entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must
inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that learned
man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and,
consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the
advancement of knowledge, and the diffusion of learning.</p>
<p>‘That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken
into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the
aforesaid, Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other
Pickwickians hereinafter named, for forming a new branch of United
Pickwickians, under the title of The Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club.</p>
<p>‘That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval
of this Association. ‘That the Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus
Snodgrass, Esq., M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are
hereby nominated and appointed members of the same; and that they
be requested to forward, from time to time, authenticated accounts
of their journeys and investigations, of their observations of
character and manners, and of the whole of their adventures,
together with all tales and papers to which local scenery or
associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stationed in
London.</p>
<p>‘That this Association cordially recognises the principle of
every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own
travelling expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the
members of the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length
of time they please, upon the same terms.</p>
<p>‘That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and
are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of
their letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been
deliberated upon by this Association: that this Association
considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it
emanated, and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence
therein.’</p>
<p>A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are
indebted for the following account—a casual observer might possibly
have remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head, and circular
spectacles, which were intently turned towards his (the
secretary’s) face, during the reading of the above resolutions: to
those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working
beneath that forehead, and that the beaming eyes of Pickwick were
twinkling behind those glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting
one. There sat the man who had traced to their source the mighty
ponds of Hampstead, and agitated the scientific world with his
Theory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved as the deep waters of the
one on a frosty day, or as a solitary specimen of the other in the
inmost recesses of an earthen jar. And how much more interesting
did the spectacle become, when, starting into full life and
animation, as a simultaneous call for ‘Pickwick’ burst from his
followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted into the Windsor
chair, on which he had been previously seated, and addressed the
club himself had founded. What a study for an artist did that
exciting scene present! The eloquent Pickwick, with one hand
gracefully concealed behind his coat tails, and the other waving in
air to assist his glowing declamation; his elevated position
revealing those tights and gaiters, which, had they clothed an
ordinary man, might have passed without observation, but which,
when Pickwick clothed them—if we may use the expression—inspired
involuntary awe and respect; surrounded by the men who had
volunteered to share the perils of his travels, and who were
destined to participate in the glories of his discoveries. On his
right sat Mr. Tracy Tupman—the too susceptible Tupman, who to the
wisdom and experience of maturer years superadded the enthusiasm
and ardour of a boy in the most interesting and pardonable of human
weaknesses—love. Time and feeding had expanded that once romantic
form; the black silk waistcoat had become more and more developed;
inch by inch had the gold watch–chain beneath it disappeared from
within the range of Tupman’s vision; and gradually had the
capacious chin encroached upon the borders of the white cravat: but
the soul of Tupman had known no change—admiration of the fair sex
was still its ruling passion. On the left of his great leader sat
the poetic Snodgrass, and near him again the sporting Winkle; the
former poetically enveloped in a mysterious blue cloak with a
canine–skin collar, and the latter communicating additional lustre
to a new green shooting–coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely–fitted
drabs.</p>
<p>Mr. Pickwick’s oration upon this occasion, together with the
debate thereon, is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both
bear a strong affinity to the discussions of other celebrated
bodies; and, as it is always interesting to trace a resemblance
between the proceedings of great men, we transfer the entry to
these pages.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was dear
to the heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the heart of his
friend Snodgrass; the fame of conquest was equally dear to his
friend Tupman; and the desire of earning fame in the sports of the
field, the air, and the water was uppermost in the breast of his
friend Winkle. He (Mr. Pickwick) would not deny that he was
influenced by human passions and human feelings (cheers)—possibly
by human weaknesses (loud cries of “No”); but this he would say,
that if ever the fire of self–importance broke out in his bosom,
the desire to benefit the human race in preference effectually
quenched it. The praise of mankind was his swing; philanthropy was
his insurance office. (Vehement cheering.) He had felt some
pride—he acknowledged it freely, and let his enemies make the most
of it—he had felt some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian
Theory to the world; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry
of “It is,” and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of
that honourable Pickwickian whose voice he had just heard—it was
celebrated; but if the fame of that treatise were to extend to the
farthest confines of the known world, the pride with which he
should reflect on the authorship of that production would be as
nothing compared with the pride with which he looked around him, on
this, the proudest moment of his existence. (Cheers.) He was a
humble individual. (“No, no.”) Still he could not but feel that
they had selected him for a service of great honour, and of some
danger. Travelling was in a troubled state, and the minds of
coachmen were unsettled. Let them look abroad and contemplate the
scenes which were enacting around them. Stage–coaches were
upsetting in all directions, horses were bolting, boats were
overturning, and boilers were bursting. (Cheers—a voice “No.”) No!
(Cheers.) Let that honourable Pickwickian who cried “No” so loudly
come forward and deny it, if he could. (Cheers.) Who was it that
cried “No”? (Enthusiastic cheering.) Was it some vain and
disappointed man—he would not say haberdasher (loud cheers)—who,
jealous of the praise which had been—perhaps undeservedly—bestowed
on his (Mr. Pickwick’s) researches, and smarting under the censure
which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at rivalry, now
took this vile and calumnious mode of—</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honourable
Pickwickian allude to him? (Cries of “Order,” “Chair,” “Yes,” “No,”
“Go on,” “Leave off,” etc.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick would not put up to be put down by clamour. He had
alluded to the honourable gentleman. (Great excitement.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton would only say then, that he repelled the hon.
gent.‘s false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt.
(Great cheering.) The hon. gent. was a humbug. (Immense confusion,
and loud cries of “Chair,” and “Order.”)</p>
<p>‘Mr. A. Snodgrass rose to order. He threw himself upon the
chair. (Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest
between two members of that club should be allowed to continue.
(Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘The chairman was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw
the expression he had just made use of.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite
sure he would not.</p>
<p>‘The chairman felt it his imperative duty to demand of the
honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had
just escaped him in a common sense.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton had no hesitation in saying that he had not—he had
used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) He was bound
to acknowledge that, personally, he entertained the highest regard
and esteem for the honourable gentleman; he had merely considered
him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view. (Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and full
explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at once
understood, that his own observations had been merely intended to
bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers.)’</p>
<p>Here the entry terminates, as we have no doubt the debate did
also, after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intelligible
point. We have no official statement of the facts which the reader
will find recorded in the next chapter, but they have been
carefully collated from letters and other ms. authorities, so
unquestionably genuine as to justify their narration in a connected
form.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:00:57 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:00:58 INFO  - Step 22 - I open font settings
2023-01-18 04:00:58 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:00:59 INFO  - Step 23 - I change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-01-18 04:00:59 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:00 INFO  - Step 24 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-01-18 04:01:00 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:01:00 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:01:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:01:01 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Pickwick Papers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_9787" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class="translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">1</span></span>
The Pickwickians</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>The first ray of light which illumines the gloom, and converts
into a dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier
history of the public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear
to be involved, is derived from the perusal of the following entry
in the Transactions of the Pickwick Club, which the editor of these
papers feels the highest pleasure in laying before his readers, as
a proof of the careful attention, indefatigable assiduity, and nice
discrimination, with which his search among the multifarious
documents confided to him has been conducted.</p>
<p>‘May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. [Perpetual
Vice–President—Member Pickwick Club], presiding. The following
resolutions unanimously agreed to:—</p>
<p>‘That this Association has heard read, with feelings of
unmingled satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper
communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. [General
Chairman—Member Pickwick Club], entitled “Speculations on the
Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some Observations on the Theory
of Tittlebats;” and that this Association does hereby return its
warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., for
the same.</p>
<p>‘That while this Association is deeply sensible of the
advantages which must accrue to the cause of science, from the
production to which they have just adverted—no less than from the
unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in
Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and Camberwell—they cannot but
entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must
inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that learned
man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and,
consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the
advancement of knowledge, and the diffusion of learning.</p>
<p>‘That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken
into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the
aforesaid, Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other
Pickwickians hereinafter named, for forming a new branch of United
Pickwickians, under the title of The Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club.</p>
<p>‘That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval
of this Association. ‘That the Corresponding Society of the
Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus
Snodgrass, Esq., M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are
hereby nominated and appointed members of the same; and that they
be requested to forward, from time to time, authenticated accounts
of their journeys and investigations, of their observations of
character and manners, and of the whole of their adventures,
together with all tales and papers to which local scenery or
associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stationed in
London.</p>
<p>‘That this Association cordially recognises the principle of
every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own
travelling expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the
members of the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length
of time they please, upon the same terms.</p>
<p>‘That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and
are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of
their letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been
deliberated upon by this Association: that this Association
considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it
emanated, and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence
therein.’</p>
<p>A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are
indebted for the following account—a casual observer might possibly
have remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head, and circular
spectacles, which were intently turned towards his (the
secretary’s) face, during the reading of the above resolutions: to
those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working
beneath that forehead, and that the beaming eyes of Pickwick were
twinkling behind those glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting
one. There sat the man who had traced to their source the mighty
ponds of Hampstead, and agitated the scientific world with his
Theory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved as the deep waters of the
one on a frosty day, or as a solitary specimen of the other in the
inmost recesses of an earthen jar. And how much more interesting
did the spectacle become, when, starting into full life and
animation, as a simultaneous call for ‘Pickwick’ burst from his
followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted into the Windsor
chair, on which he had been previously seated, and addressed the
club himself had founded. What a study for an artist did that
exciting scene present! The eloquent Pickwick, with one hand
gracefully concealed behind his coat tails, and the other waving in
air to assist his glowing declamation; his elevated position
revealing those tights and gaiters, which, had they clothed an
ordinary man, might have passed without observation, but which,
when Pickwick clothed them—if we may use the expression—inspired
involuntary awe and respect; surrounded by the men who had
volunteered to share the perils of his travels, and who were
destined to participate in the glories of his discoveries. On his
right sat Mr. Tracy Tupman—the too susceptible Tupman, who to the
wisdom and experience of maturer years superadded the enthusiasm
and ardour of a boy in the most interesting and pardonable of human
weaknesses—love. Time and feeding had expanded that once romantic
form; the black silk waistcoat had become more and more developed;
inch by inch had the gold watch–chain beneath it disappeared from
within the range of Tupman’s vision; and gradually had the
capacious chin encroached upon the borders of the white cravat: but
the soul of Tupman had known no change—admiration of the fair sex
was still its ruling passion. On the left of his great leader sat
the poetic Snodgrass, and near him again the sporting Winkle; the
former poetically enveloped in a mysterious blue cloak with a
canine–skin collar, and the latter communicating additional lustre
to a new green shooting–coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely–fitted
drabs.</p>
<p>Mr. Pickwick’s oration upon this occasion, together with the
debate thereon, is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both
bear a strong affinity to the discussions of other celebrated
bodies; and, as it is always interesting to trace a resemblance
between the proceedings of great men, we transfer the entry to
these pages.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was dear
to the heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the heart of his
friend Snodgrass; the fame of conquest was equally dear to his
friend Tupman; and the desire of earning fame in the sports of the
field, the air, and the water was uppermost in the breast of his
friend Winkle. He (Mr. Pickwick) would not deny that he was
influenced by human passions and human feelings (cheers)—possibly
by human weaknesses (loud cries of “No”); but this he would say,
that if ever the fire of self–importance broke out in his bosom,
the desire to benefit the human race in preference effectually
quenched it. The praise of mankind was his swing; philanthropy was
his insurance office. (Vehement cheering.) He had felt some
pride—he acknowledged it freely, and let his enemies make the most
of it—he had felt some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian
Theory to the world; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry
of “It is,” and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of
that honourable Pickwickian whose voice he had just heard—it was
celebrated; but if the fame of that treatise were to extend to the
farthest confines of the known world, the pride with which he
should reflect on the authorship of that production would be as
nothing compared with the pride with which he looked around him, on
this, the proudest moment of his existence. (Cheers.) He was a
humble individual. (“No, no.”) Still he could not but feel that
they had selected him for a service of great honour, and of some
danger. Travelling was in a troubled state, and the minds of
coachmen were unsettled. Let them look abroad and contemplate the
scenes which were enacting around them. Stage–coaches were
upsetting in all directions, horses were bolting, boats were
overturning, and boilers were bursting. (Cheers—a voice “No.”) No!
(Cheers.) Let that honourable Pickwickian who cried “No” so loudly
come forward and deny it, if he could. (Cheers.) Who was it that
cried “No”? (Enthusiastic cheering.) Was it some vain and
disappointed man—he would not say haberdasher (loud cheers)—who,
jealous of the praise which had been—perhaps undeservedly—bestowed
on his (Mr. Pickwick’s) researches, and smarting under the censure
which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at rivalry, now
took this vile and calumnious mode of—</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honourable
Pickwickian allude to him? (Cries of “Order,” “Chair,” “Yes,” “No,”
“Go on,” “Leave off,” etc.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick would not put up to be put down by clamour. He had
alluded to the honourable gentleman. (Great excitement.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton would only say then, that he repelled the hon.
gent.‘s false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt.
(Great cheering.) The hon. gent. was a humbug. (Immense confusion,
and loud cries of “Chair,” and “Order.”)</p>
<p>‘Mr. A. Snodgrass rose to order. He threw himself upon the
chair. (Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest
between two members of that club should be allowed to continue.
(Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘The chairman was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw
the expression he had just made use of.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite
sure he would not.</p>
<p>‘The chairman felt it his imperative duty to demand of the
honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had
just escaped him in a common sense.</p>
<p>‘Mr. Blotton had no hesitation in saying that he had not—he had
used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) He was bound
to acknowledge that, personally, he entertained the highest regard
and esteem for the honourable gentleman; he had merely considered
him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view. (Hear, hear.)</p>
<p>‘Mr. Pickwick felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and full
explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at once
understood, that his own observations had been merely intended to
bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers.)’</p>
<p>Here the entry terminates, as we have no doubt the debate did
also, after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intelligible
point. We have no official statement of the facts which the reader
will find recorded in the next chapter, but they have been
carefully collated from letters and other ms. authorities, so
unquestionably genuine as to justify their narration in a connected
form.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:01:01 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:01:01 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-01-18 04:01:03 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-01-18 04:01:04 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:07 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:08 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:01:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:01:11 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:01:11 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:01:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:01:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:01:15 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-01-18 04:01:15 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@6ef5ab08
