2023-01-18 04:12:05 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-01-18 04:12:05 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-01-18 04:12:29 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-01-18 04:12:29 INFO  - Session id - 6deda64220ab6ee8a9f72c8dfa30e7ea5fe64588
2023-01-18 04:12:29 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-01-18 04:12:29 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:32 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:32 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 04:12:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-01-18 04:12:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:37 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-01-18 04:12:37 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:38 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:39 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:41 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-01-18 04:12:41 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:41 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:42 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:43 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:45 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000306
2023-01-18 04:12:45 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-01-18 04:12:46 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-01-18 04:12:46 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-01-18 04:12:46 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 04:12:46 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000306'
2023-01-18 04:12:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-01-18 04:12:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-01-18 04:12:49 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:12:56 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:12:56 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-01-18 04:13:18 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:13:19 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-01-18 04:13:19 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:13:41 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-01-18 04:14:01 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:14:02 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-01-18 04:14:02 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-01-18 04:14:02 INFO  - randomBookName: How to Resist Amazon and Why
2023-01-18 04:14:02 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-01-18 04:14:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'How to Resist Amazon and Why'
2023-01-18 04:14:03 INFO  - Button 'Apply search' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:14:05 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-01-18 04:14:08 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-01-18 04:14:09 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:14:10 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:14:17 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-01-18 04:14:17 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:14:18 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:14:18 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:14:19 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:14:20 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-01-18 04:14:20 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-01-18 04:15:38 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-01-18 04:15:38 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:15:39 INFO  - Step 12 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-01-18 04:15:39 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:15:40 INFO  - Step 13 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-01-18 04:15:40 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:15:40 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:15:41 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:15:42 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>resistamazon</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="resistamazon" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<div id="uNIy39yTDmKfNHTpiI4zDx8" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="heading-1 ParaOverride-9"><span class="CharOverride-15">Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-10"><span class="CharOverride-16"> Why </span><span class="CharOverride-16">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span></p><br />
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-17">B</span><span class="CharOverride-18">ooks. Every task I perform in every workday is somehow related to books. I open boxes full of them. I put them on the shelf. I order them. I return them. I hand them to customers I think will love them. I watch as a team of dedicated booksellers does all of the above alongside me. Every day I unlock the doors of my bookstore</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">The Raven Book Store in Lawrence, Kansas</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">so I can preach the importance of books alongside my team. Every day I go to work and I’m reminded that there can be a place for independent bookstores in 21st century America. I’m reminded that independent small businesses can carve a space to earn a living and shape their communities. I’m reminded that books, and those who sell them, are resilient and beloved.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Many of us in the independent bookstore world would fight to defend the idea of The Book with a capital B. It’s hard to even talk about how we feel about The Book without getting grandiose. We believe the right book can change the world. We believe the right book can grow empathy in its reader, and that empathy can blossom into positive change. We believe the right book can forever alter the course of the right reader’s life. It’s all high and mighty, but it’s true. We believe in these objects and their power, and our work is to help the right books get into the right hands.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Since 1995, we’ve watched as Amazon has become a bigger and bigger threat to that work. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">There has never been a company as big, powerful, and pervasive as Amazon. Amazon is disruptive to the ability of small businesses to stay afloat. Amazon is a continuation of the story begun when Walmart and other megastores began their rapid spread. Amazon is indeed the latest link in a chain of threats to the American retail small business, from shopping malls to chain megastores to online e-commerce giants, each acting in their own pernicious way to destroy the American downtown. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Yet Amazon is more dangerous than Walmart because it’s so much bigger, and it has its hands in so many more businessesses. Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing system that provides the data infrastructure for much of the Internet, from government servers to Netflix. It’s near impossible for anyone to use the Internet without Amazon’s silent participation. This alone means Amazon has a gigantic impact on everyday life. Beyond that, Amazon’s massive portfolio of companies and products mean Amazon has a hand in every Ring doorbell, every Whole Foods grocery purchase, every Audible audiobook, every Goodreads review, every article in the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">Washington Post</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, every shoe from Zappos, every stream on Twitch, plus many online advertisements and smart speakers and e-readers and TV shows. Amazon has even built its own nationwide delivery network; rather than work with USPS, UPS, and Fedex, Amazon has fashioned its own private version from the ground up, and the results are dangerous. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon executives regularly downplay Amazon’s size; in a PBS Frontline documentary Amazon CEO of Worldwide Commerce Jeff Wilke claims, “We’re 1% of the retail sales in the world, about.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">1</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> But what percentage of eBook sales does Amazon control? Of cloud hosting? Of online advertising? Of lobbying? Of groceries? Of online shoe sales? Of online book sales? A single company having a stake in so many different aspects of the market is dangerous. Through its Amazon Marketplace platform, Amazon acts as host for a third-party marketplace </span><span class="CharOverride-20">and</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> a competitor on that platform. Basically, Amazon is a referee and a player in the same game, and the game is the world’s largest online retail marketplace. Walmart is still a threat to American small businesses, but Walmart never did quite so </span><span class="CharOverride-20">much</span><span class="CharOverride-18">. It’s possible to argue, even, that Walmart is now trying to catch up to Amazon. Walmart is now just one of many large corporations trying to adapt to the Amazon world by taking pages from Amazon’s playbook.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon’s impact is huge. One of the world’s most valuable companies, it has caused havoc in every industry it has touched. My industry, books, happens to be the first industry at which Amazon took aim. Everybody in the book business feels Amazon’s might. Booksellers feel it the most in this way: it is possible to buy the latest bestseller on Amazon for less than the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">wholesale price</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> my bookstore pays. Let that sink in. A book that costs me $14 to put on my shelves could be for sale to </span><span class="CharOverride-20">customers</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> on Amazon for $10. It’s stunning: you can buy a book below cost and have it at your door tomorrow with free shipping. That fact alone underlies everything I do at The Raven. Even more, the cheapness of Amazon’s books serves to diminish the value of all books, regardless of where they’re sold.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">It’s so easy to buy things on Amazon, and millions of people know it. Amazon’s smiling boxes sprinkle stoops across the world. Their smiling vans double park on blocks in countless cities and their smiling semis haul down countless interstates. The massive shipping network required to get that box to you so cheap and so fast can be a strain on the environment, not to mention unsafe to its drivers and customers. The warehouses that feed that shipping network have injury rates high above industry average and are highly susceptible to outbreaks of deadly diseases like COVID-19. Ring home cameras make it far too easy to feed video data to police departments. Amazon Web Services earns lots of money, including from violent agencies like ICE. Amazon makes things easy; they don’t necessarily make them right.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Some may try to attribute the explosion of Amazon’s reach to Jeff Bezos’s business brilliance. However, even if Bezos had the right idea at the right time, a fleet of tax breaks and government benefits has helped Amazon rise to the pinnacle it occupies today. Nowhere is this better demonstrated than Amazon’s HQ2 search, a contest for cities to compete to host a second Amazon headquarters. Cities fell over themselves to offer Amazon the biggest possible portfolios of tax breaks and corporate welfare. It was a display of just how far governments would go to subsidize a trillion-dollar company. In 2018, Amazon made over $11 billion in profits and paid no federal income tax.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Every decision Amazon makes causes shockwaves in the industries that Amazon has—to borrow Silicon Valley parlance—disrupted. TV, shoes, groceries, web traffic, home security, e-commerce, books, e-books, audiobooks. They’ve all had to scramble to adapt to the force of the company founded by Jeff Bezos, the world’s richest man. The book-related decisions Amazon makes send ripples across the entire publishing industry like a boulder tossed into a pond. Maybe that’s too peaceful. Amazon’s effect on the book world is like a video you’d see in high school chemistry class: not a boulder tossed into a pond but a chunk of pure sodium that explodes the instant it touches water. Amazon accounts for half of all book sales in the United States. Booksellers, authors, libraries, publishers, wholesalers, agents, authors, designers—we all feel it. Amazon holds sway over every aspect of books and publishing. Again, Amazon, one single retailer, accounts for half of all books sold in the United States. That alone should be cause for concern. And that’s just the book industry. Even more concerning is Amazon’s effect on individual liberties, shipping infrastructure, workers’ rights, and the environment.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18"> We must resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon was founded to disrupt the bookselling business. Rather than a small brick-and-mortar store with, say, 25,000 books, Amazon was, at its start, an online-only bookstore with millions of titles. Unlike so many people in the book industry, Bezos didn’t pick books out of a passion for reading or literacy. According to biographer Brad Stone, Bezos picked books because “they were pure commodities; a copy of a book in one store was identical to the same book carried in another.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">2</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> Further, “most important, there were three million books in print worldwide, far more than a Barnes &amp; Noble or a Borders superstore could ever stock.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">3 </span><span class="CharOverride-18">Until Jeff Bezos came along, the book industry was built on curation; Amazon disrupted that model by simply selling everything. Amazon has since repeated this “everything store” model with countless other industries, but books were the first target, and one of the hardest hit. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Disruption doesn’t automatically equal progress. Amazon puts my business—and countless others like it—at risk. If we’re put out of business by Amazon’s disruption, it means more than just an empty storefront. A small business serves its community in many ways beyond the sale of retail goods. Communities are threatened if small businesses can no longer thrive thanks to Amazon’s reach. Even if Amazon doesn’t put bookstores out of business, it shrinks their market share, leaving fewer resources to compensate workers. If the world’s biggest retailer of books is working to devalue books, then working in the production and selling of books is less lucrative. The emotional joy of selling books is often viewed as a perk of the job, but you can’t buy groceries or medical treatment with the joy of selling books.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">The American small business, and indie bookstores in particular, have survived much bigger competition before. The Amazon fight isn’t the first time independent bookstores and small businesses have taken on larger competition in an effort to stake a claim. During Walmart’s expansion years, “shop local” movements sprang up across the country. Events like Small Business Saturday, Record Store Day, and Independent Bookstore Day aim to celebrate small businesses and their contributions. The craft beer explosion represents a successful small business resistance in the face of industry-dominating titans. The small-businesses-vs-corporate-titans fight even reached the courtroom: in the late 1990s, the American Booksellers Association sued Borders and Barnes &amp; Noble over predatory pricing methods similar to Amazon’s today.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">My bookstore still feels the remnants of the indies-vs-megastore fight: from our cash register you can see across the street to the empty building that housed a Borders Books &amp; Music from 1997-2011. There’s a bit of comfort in knowing we’re still open while the Borders is shuttered. So why can’t bookstores just sue Amazon the way we sued the big chains in 1998? Simply put: we can’t afford to. Amazon is much bigger and much more powerful than the big book chains ever were. So we must find new ways to resist Amazon’s growth and influence. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">If Amazon is allowed to grow unchecked, it’s hard to know what exactly they’ll try to do. Jeff Bezos has spoken about how his ultimate goal is to colonize space. If Amazon continues to bulldoze everything in its path, he very well may achieve that goal. But here’s what else he’ll achieve: the destruction of countless American small businesses. The end of the ability to spend an hour quietly browsing an independent bookstore. The shuttering of grocery stores and co-ops. If Amazon grows unchecked, your neighbor’s house might be able to automatically call the cops on you because that house’s doorbell has flagged you as suspicious in a facial recognition database. If Amazon grows unchecked and its web services hold up more of the Internet’s backbone, might this single company have too much sway over what gets said or posted online? Before we let Amazon become as big as it wants to be, we must investigate what it stands for. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">To help people investigate what Amazon stands for, I’ve written this book. The book world is very good at talking amongst itself about Amazon’s effect. I decided it was time to bring that discussion to our customers, first through The Raven’s Twitter account, then through a zine called </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, and now through this book. It is an entry point, a beginner’s guide to resisting Amazon. There is much more to know and understand about Amazon than what is contained in these pages, but I’ve included suggestions for further reading for those who wish to dive deeper. This book is intended for those who are beginning to feel uneasy about Amazon. Hopefully it can serve as a guide for how to unplug from this dangerous company, as well as a brief summary of the compelling reasons to do so. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Half the chapters in </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> build a case against Amazon around central themes like “The Environment” or “Jobs” or “Shipping.” In between each of these case-against-Amazon chapters is a narrative interlude from the perspective of my small business. These interludes, hopefully, are quiet demonstrations of the power and potential of places like The Raven Book Store. They’re meant to empower and advocate for independent businesses, but also to demonstrate a little bit of what’s at stake if Amazon makes it harder for all of us to flourish. Finally, the book concludes with a chapter outlining concrete steps you can take to resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Despite the title of the book, this is about more than one company. I’ve framed this book around Amazon because Amazon is the most powerful, effective, and ruthless practitioner of a new kind of commerce, but many others are trying to learn from Amazon’s playbook. This new commerce is more than one company selling a lot of books—it’s a fundamental revision of how we view privacy. Of how we view a business’s role in American society. Of the limits on the power of a single business. Of our environment. In some ways, of what it means to be human. Amazon’s thinking represents a shift in the American way of life, and if you ask me, it’s a shift worth resisting. I am resolute in the idea that being human means more than being a source of data with which companies can sell you things. Being human is about things that can’t be measured in clicks, data, or money. If you ask me, we should resist companies that want to tear down those ways of being human. Good news: if you’ve read this far, you’re already on your way.</span></p>
			</div>
		</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:15:42 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:15:42 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-01-18 04:16:07 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-01-18 04:16:07 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:08 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-01-18 04:16:08 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:09 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:16:10 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:10 INFO  - Step 18 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-01-18 04:16:11 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:16:12 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:16:13 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:16:13 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:16:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:14 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>resistamazon</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="resistamazon" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<div id="uNIy39yTDmKfNHTpiI4zDx8" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="heading-1 ParaOverride-9"><span class="CharOverride-15">Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-10"><span class="CharOverride-16"> Why </span><span class="CharOverride-16">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span></p><br />
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-17">B</span><span class="CharOverride-18">ooks. Every task I perform in every workday is somehow related to books. I open boxes full of them. I put them on the shelf. I order them. I return them. I hand them to customers I think will love them. I watch as a team of dedicated booksellers does all of the above alongside me. Every day I unlock the doors of my bookstore</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">The Raven Book Store in Lawrence, Kansas</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">so I can preach the importance of books alongside my team. Every day I go to work and I’m reminded that there can be a place for independent bookstores in 21st century America. I’m reminded that independent small businesses can carve a space to earn a living and shape their communities. I’m reminded that books, and those who sell them, are resilient and beloved.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Many of us in the independent bookstore world would fight to defend the idea of The Book with a capital B. It’s hard to even talk about how we feel about The Book without getting grandiose. We believe the right book can change the world. We believe the right book can grow empathy in its reader, and that empathy can blossom into positive change. We believe the right book can forever alter the course of the right reader’s life. It’s all high and mighty, but it’s true. We believe in these objects and their power, and our work is to help the right books get into the right hands.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Since 1995, we’ve watched as Amazon has become a bigger and bigger threat to that work. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">There has never been a company as big, powerful, and pervasive as Amazon. Amazon is disruptive to the ability of small businesses to stay afloat. Amazon is a continuation of the story begun when Walmart and other megastores began their rapid spread. Amazon is indeed the latest link in a chain of threats to the American retail small business, from shopping malls to chain megastores to online e-commerce giants, each acting in their own pernicious way to destroy the American downtown. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Yet Amazon is more dangerous than Walmart because it’s so much bigger, and it has its hands in so many more businessesses. Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing system that provides the data infrastructure for much of the Internet, from government servers to Netflix. It’s near impossible for anyone to use the Internet without Amazon’s silent participation. This alone means Amazon has a gigantic impact on everyday life. Beyond that, Amazon’s massive portfolio of companies and products mean Amazon has a hand in every Ring doorbell, every Whole Foods grocery purchase, every Audible audiobook, every Goodreads review, every article in the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">Washington Post</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, every shoe from Zappos, every stream on Twitch, plus many online advertisements and smart speakers and e-readers and TV shows. Amazon has even built its own nationwide delivery network; rather than work with USPS, UPS, and Fedex, Amazon has fashioned its own private version from the ground up, and the results are dangerous. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon executives regularly downplay Amazon’s size; in a PBS Frontline documentary Amazon CEO of Worldwide Commerce Jeff Wilke claims, “We’re 1% of the retail sales in the world, about.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">1</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> But what percentage of eBook sales does Amazon control? Of cloud hosting? Of online advertising? Of lobbying? Of groceries? Of online shoe sales? Of online book sales? A single company having a stake in so many different aspects of the market is dangerous. Through its Amazon Marketplace platform, Amazon acts as host for a third-party marketplace </span><span class="CharOverride-20">and</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> a competitor on that platform. Basically, Amazon is a referee and a player in the same game, and the game is the world’s largest online retail marketplace. Walmart is still a threat to American small businesses, but Walmart never did quite so </span><span class="CharOverride-20">much</span><span class="CharOverride-18">. It’s possible to argue, even, that Walmart is now trying to catch up to Amazon. Walmart is now just one of many large corporations trying to adapt to the Amazon world by taking pages from Amazon’s playbook.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon’s impact is huge. One of the world’s most valuable companies, it has caused havoc in every industry it has touched. My industry, books, happens to be the first industry at which Amazon took aim. Everybody in the book business feels Amazon’s might. Booksellers feel it the most in this way: it is possible to buy the latest bestseller on Amazon for less than the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">wholesale price</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> my bookstore pays. Let that sink in. A book that costs me $14 to put on my shelves could be for sale to </span><span class="CharOverride-20">customers</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> on Amazon for $10. It’s stunning: you can buy a book below cost and have it at your door tomorrow with free shipping. That fact alone underlies everything I do at The Raven. Even more, the cheapness of Amazon’s books serves to diminish the value of all books, regardless of where they’re sold.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">It’s so easy to buy things on Amazon, and millions of people know it. Amazon’s smiling boxes sprinkle stoops across the world. Their smiling vans double park on blocks in countless cities and their smiling semis haul down countless interstates. The massive shipping network required to get that box to you so cheap and so fast can be a strain on the environment, not to mention unsafe to its drivers and customers. The warehouses that feed that shipping network have injury rates high above industry average and are highly susceptible to outbreaks of deadly diseases like COVID-19. Ring home cameras make it far too easy to feed video data to police departments. Amazon Web Services earns lots of money, including from violent agencies like ICE. Amazon makes things easy; they don’t necessarily make them right.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Some may try to attribute the explosion of Amazon’s reach to Jeff Bezos’s business brilliance. However, even if Bezos had the right idea at the right time, a fleet of tax breaks and government benefits has helped Amazon rise to the pinnacle it occupies today. Nowhere is this better demonstrated than Amazon’s HQ2 search, a contest for cities to compete to host a second Amazon headquarters. Cities fell over themselves to offer Amazon the biggest possible portfolios of tax breaks and corporate welfare. It was a display of just how far governments would go to subsidize a trillion-dollar company. In 2018, Amazon made over $11 billion in profits and paid no federal income tax.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Every decision Amazon makes causes shockwaves in the industries that Amazon has—to borrow Silicon Valley parlance—disrupted. TV, shoes, groceries, web traffic, home security, e-commerce, books, e-books, audiobooks. They’ve all had to scramble to adapt to the force of the company founded by Jeff Bezos, the world’s richest man. The book-related decisions Amazon makes send ripples across the entire publishing industry like a boulder tossed into a pond. Maybe that’s too peaceful. Amazon’s effect on the book world is like a video you’d see in high school chemistry class: not a boulder tossed into a pond but a chunk of pure sodium that explodes the instant it touches water. Amazon accounts for half of all book sales in the United States. Booksellers, authors, libraries, publishers, wholesalers, agents, authors, designers—we all feel it. Amazon holds sway over every aspect of books and publishing. Again, Amazon, one single retailer, accounts for half of all books sold in the United States. That alone should be cause for concern. And that’s just the book industry. Even more concerning is Amazon’s effect on individual liberties, shipping infrastructure, workers’ rights, and the environment.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18"> We must resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon was founded to disrupt the bookselling business. Rather than a small brick-and-mortar store with, say, 25,000 books, Amazon was, at its start, an online-only bookstore with millions of titles. Unlike so many people in the book industry, Bezos didn’t pick books out of a passion for reading or literacy. According to biographer Brad Stone, Bezos picked books because “they were pure commodities; a copy of a book in one store was identical to the same book carried in another.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">2</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> Further, “most important, there were three million books in print worldwide, far more than a Barnes &amp; Noble or a Borders superstore could ever stock.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">3 </span><span class="CharOverride-18">Until Jeff Bezos came along, the book industry was built on curation; Amazon disrupted that model by simply selling everything. Amazon has since repeated this “everything store” model with countless other industries, but books were the first target, and one of the hardest hit. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Disruption doesn’t automatically equal progress. Amazon puts my business—and countless others like it—at risk. If we’re put out of business by Amazon’s disruption, it means more than just an empty storefront. A small business serves its community in many ways beyond the sale of retail goods. Communities are threatened if small businesses can no longer thrive thanks to Amazon’s reach. Even if Amazon doesn’t put bookstores out of business, it shrinks their market share, leaving fewer resources to compensate workers. If the world’s biggest retailer of books is working to devalue books, then working in the production and selling of books is less lucrative. The emotional joy of selling books is often viewed as a perk of the job, but you can’t buy groceries or medical treatment with the joy of selling books.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">The American small business, and indie bookstores in particular, have survived much bigger competition before. The Amazon fight isn’t the first time independent bookstores and small businesses have taken on larger competition in an effort to stake a claim. During Walmart’s expansion years, “shop local” movements sprang up across the country. Events like Small Business Saturday, Record Store Day, and Independent Bookstore Day aim to celebrate small businesses and their contributions. The craft beer explosion represents a successful small business resistance in the face of industry-dominating titans. The small-businesses-vs-corporate-titans fight even reached the courtroom: in the late 1990s, the American Booksellers Association sued Borders and Barnes &amp; Noble over predatory pricing methods similar to Amazon’s today.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">My bookstore still feels the remnants of the indies-vs-megastore fight: from our cash register you can see across the street to the empty building that housed a Borders Books &amp; Music from 1997-2011. There’s a bit of comfort in knowing we’re still open while the Borders is shuttered. So why can’t bookstores just sue Amazon the way we sued the big chains in 1998? Simply put: we can’t afford to. Amazon is much bigger and much more powerful than the big book chains ever were. So we must find new ways to resist Amazon’s growth and influence. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">If Amazon is allowed to grow unchecked, it’s hard to know what exactly they’ll try to do. Jeff Bezos has spoken about how his ultimate goal is to colonize space. If Amazon continues to bulldoze everything in its path, he very well may achieve that goal. But here’s what else he’ll achieve: the destruction of countless American small businesses. The end of the ability to spend an hour quietly browsing an independent bookstore. The shuttering of grocery stores and co-ops. If Amazon grows unchecked, your neighbor’s house might be able to automatically call the cops on you because that house’s doorbell has flagged you as suspicious in a facial recognition database. If Amazon grows unchecked and its web services hold up more of the Internet’s backbone, might this single company have too much sway over what gets said or posted online? Before we let Amazon become as big as it wants to be, we must investigate what it stands for. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">To help people investigate what Amazon stands for, I’ve written this book. The book world is very good at talking amongst itself about Amazon’s effect. I decided it was time to bring that discussion to our customers, first through The Raven’s Twitter account, then through a zine called </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, and now through this book. It is an entry point, a beginner’s guide to resisting Amazon. There is much more to know and understand about Amazon than what is contained in these pages, but I’ve included suggestions for further reading for those who wish to dive deeper. This book is intended for those who are beginning to feel uneasy about Amazon. Hopefully it can serve as a guide for how to unplug from this dangerous company, as well as a brief summary of the compelling reasons to do so. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Half the chapters in </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> build a case against Amazon around central themes like “The Environment” or “Jobs” or “Shipping.” In between each of these case-against-Amazon chapters is a narrative interlude from the perspective of my small business. These interludes, hopefully, are quiet demonstrations of the power and potential of places like The Raven Book Store. They’re meant to empower and advocate for independent businesses, but also to demonstrate a little bit of what’s at stake if Amazon makes it harder for all of us to flourish. Finally, the book concludes with a chapter outlining concrete steps you can take to resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Despite the title of the book, this is about more than one company. I’ve framed this book around Amazon because Amazon is the most powerful, effective, and ruthless practitioner of a new kind of commerce, but many others are trying to learn from Amazon’s playbook. This new commerce is more than one company selling a lot of books—it’s a fundamental revision of how we view privacy. Of how we view a business’s role in American society. Of the limits on the power of a single business. Of our environment. In some ways, of what it means to be human. Amazon’s thinking represents a shift in the American way of life, and if you ask me, it’s a shift worth resisting. I am resolute in the idea that being human means more than being a source of data with which companies can sell you things. Being human is about things that can’t be measured in clicks, data, or money. If you ask me, we should resist companies that want to tear down those ways of being human. Good news: if you’ve read this far, you’re already on your way.</span></p>
			</div>
		</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:16:14 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:15 INFO  - Step 19 - I return to previous screen from epub
2023-01-18 04:16:15 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:16 INFO  - Step 20 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-01-18 04:16:17 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:17 INFO  - Step 21 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-01-18 04:16:18 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:16:18 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:16:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:19 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>resistamazon</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="resistamazon" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<div id="uNIy39yTDmKfNHTpiI4zDx8" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="heading-1 ParaOverride-9"><span class="CharOverride-15">Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-10"><span class="CharOverride-16"> Why </span><span class="CharOverride-16">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span></p><br />
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-17">B</span><span class="CharOverride-18">ooks. Every task I perform in every workday is somehow related to books. I open boxes full of them. I put them on the shelf. I order them. I return them. I hand them to customers I think will love them. I watch as a team of dedicated booksellers does all of the above alongside me. Every day I unlock the doors of my bookstore</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">The Raven Book Store in Lawrence, Kansas</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">so I can preach the importance of books alongside my team. Every day I go to work and I’m reminded that there can be a place for independent bookstores in 21st century America. I’m reminded that independent small businesses can carve a space to earn a living and shape their communities. I’m reminded that books, and those who sell them, are resilient and beloved.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Many of us in the independent bookstore world would fight to defend the idea of The Book with a capital B. It’s hard to even talk about how we feel about The Book without getting grandiose. We believe the right book can change the world. We believe the right book can grow empathy in its reader, and that empathy can blossom into positive change. We believe the right book can forever alter the course of the right reader’s life. It’s all high and mighty, but it’s true. We believe in these objects and their power, and our work is to help the right books get into the right hands.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Since 1995, we’ve watched as Amazon has become a bigger and bigger threat to that work. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">There has never been a company as big, powerful, and pervasive as Amazon. Amazon is disruptive to the ability of small businesses to stay afloat. Amazon is a continuation of the story begun when Walmart and other megastores began their rapid spread. Amazon is indeed the latest link in a chain of threats to the American retail small business, from shopping malls to chain megastores to online e-commerce giants, each acting in their own pernicious way to destroy the American downtown. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Yet Amazon is more dangerous than Walmart because it’s so much bigger, and it has its hands in so many more businessesses. Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing system that provides the data infrastructure for much of the Internet, from government servers to Netflix. It’s near impossible for anyone to use the Internet without Amazon’s silent participation. This alone means Amazon has a gigantic impact on everyday life. Beyond that, Amazon’s massive portfolio of companies and products mean Amazon has a hand in every Ring doorbell, every Whole Foods grocery purchase, every Audible audiobook, every Goodreads review, every article in the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">Washington Post</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, every shoe from Zappos, every stream on Twitch, plus many online advertisements and smart speakers and e-readers and TV shows. Amazon has even built its own nationwide delivery network; rather than work with USPS, UPS, and Fedex, Amazon has fashioned its own private version from the ground up, and the results are dangerous. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon executives regularly downplay Amazon’s size; in a PBS Frontline documentary Amazon CEO of Worldwide Commerce Jeff Wilke claims, “We’re 1% of the retail sales in the world, about.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">1</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> But what percentage of eBook sales does Amazon control? Of cloud hosting? Of online advertising? Of lobbying? Of groceries? Of online shoe sales? Of online book sales? A single company having a stake in so many different aspects of the market is dangerous. Through its Amazon Marketplace platform, Amazon acts as host for a third-party marketplace </span><span class="CharOverride-20">and</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> a competitor on that platform. Basically, Amazon is a referee and a player in the same game, and the game is the world’s largest online retail marketplace. Walmart is still a threat to American small businesses, but Walmart never did quite so </span><span class="CharOverride-20">much</span><span class="CharOverride-18">. It’s possible to argue, even, that Walmart is now trying to catch up to Amazon. Walmart is now just one of many large corporations trying to adapt to the Amazon world by taking pages from Amazon’s playbook.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon’s impact is huge. One of the world’s most valuable companies, it has caused havoc in every industry it has touched. My industry, books, happens to be the first industry at which Amazon took aim. Everybody in the book business feels Amazon’s might. Booksellers feel it the most in this way: it is possible to buy the latest bestseller on Amazon for less than the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">wholesale price</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> my bookstore pays. Let that sink in. A book that costs me $14 to put on my shelves could be for sale to </span><span class="CharOverride-20">customers</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> on Amazon for $10. It’s stunning: you can buy a book below cost and have it at your door tomorrow with free shipping. That fact alone underlies everything I do at The Raven. Even more, the cheapness of Amazon’s books serves to diminish the value of all books, regardless of where they’re sold.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">It’s so easy to buy things on Amazon, and millions of people know it. Amazon’s smiling boxes sprinkle stoops across the world. Their smiling vans double park on blocks in countless cities and their smiling semis haul down countless interstates. The massive shipping network required to get that box to you so cheap and so fast can be a strain on the environment, not to mention unsafe to its drivers and customers. The warehouses that feed that shipping network have injury rates high above industry average and are highly susceptible to outbreaks of deadly diseases like COVID-19. Ring home cameras make it far too easy to feed video data to police departments. Amazon Web Services earns lots of money, including from violent agencies like ICE. Amazon makes things easy; they don’t necessarily make them right.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Some may try to attribute the explosion of Amazon’s reach to Jeff Bezos’s business brilliance. However, even if Bezos had the right idea at the right time, a fleet of tax breaks and government benefits has helped Amazon rise to the pinnacle it occupies today. Nowhere is this better demonstrated than Amazon’s HQ2 search, a contest for cities to compete to host a second Amazon headquarters. Cities fell over themselves to offer Amazon the biggest possible portfolios of tax breaks and corporate welfare. It was a display of just how far governments would go to subsidize a trillion-dollar company. In 2018, Amazon made over $11 billion in profits and paid no federal income tax.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Every decision Amazon makes causes shockwaves in the industries that Amazon has—to borrow Silicon Valley parlance—disrupted. TV, shoes, groceries, web traffic, home security, e-commerce, books, e-books, audiobooks. They’ve all had to scramble to adapt to the force of the company founded by Jeff Bezos, the world’s richest man. The book-related decisions Amazon makes send ripples across the entire publishing industry like a boulder tossed into a pond. Maybe that’s too peaceful. Amazon’s effect on the book world is like a video you’d see in high school chemistry class: not a boulder tossed into a pond but a chunk of pure sodium that explodes the instant it touches water. Amazon accounts for half of all book sales in the United States. Booksellers, authors, libraries, publishers, wholesalers, agents, authors, designers—we all feel it. Amazon holds sway over every aspect of books and publishing. Again, Amazon, one single retailer, accounts for half of all books sold in the United States. That alone should be cause for concern. And that’s just the book industry. Even more concerning is Amazon’s effect on individual liberties, shipping infrastructure, workers’ rights, and the environment.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18"> We must resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon was founded to disrupt the bookselling business. Rather than a small brick-and-mortar store with, say, 25,000 books, Amazon was, at its start, an online-only bookstore with millions of titles. Unlike so many people in the book industry, Bezos didn’t pick books out of a passion for reading or literacy. According to biographer Brad Stone, Bezos picked books because “they were pure commodities; a copy of a book in one store was identical to the same book carried in another.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">2</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> Further, “most important, there were three million books in print worldwide, far more than a Barnes &amp; Noble or a Borders superstore could ever stock.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">3 </span><span class="CharOverride-18">Until Jeff Bezos came along, the book industry was built on curation; Amazon disrupted that model by simply selling everything. Amazon has since repeated this “everything store” model with countless other industries, but books were the first target, and one of the hardest hit. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Disruption doesn’t automatically equal progress. Amazon puts my business—and countless others like it—at risk. If we’re put out of business by Amazon’s disruption, it means more than just an empty storefront. A small business serves its community in many ways beyond the sale of retail goods. Communities are threatened if small businesses can no longer thrive thanks to Amazon’s reach. Even if Amazon doesn’t put bookstores out of business, it shrinks their market share, leaving fewer resources to compensate workers. If the world’s biggest retailer of books is working to devalue books, then working in the production and selling of books is less lucrative. The emotional joy of selling books is often viewed as a perk of the job, but you can’t buy groceries or medical treatment with the joy of selling books.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">The American small business, and indie bookstores in particular, have survived much bigger competition before. The Amazon fight isn’t the first time independent bookstores and small businesses have taken on larger competition in an effort to stake a claim. During Walmart’s expansion years, “shop local” movements sprang up across the country. Events like Small Business Saturday, Record Store Day, and Independent Bookstore Day aim to celebrate small businesses and their contributions. The craft beer explosion represents a successful small business resistance in the face of industry-dominating titans. The small-businesses-vs-corporate-titans fight even reached the courtroom: in the late 1990s, the American Booksellers Association sued Borders and Barnes &amp; Noble over predatory pricing methods similar to Amazon’s today.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">My bookstore still feels the remnants of the indies-vs-megastore fight: from our cash register you can see across the street to the empty building that housed a Borders Books &amp; Music from 1997-2011. There’s a bit of comfort in knowing we’re still open while the Borders is shuttered. So why can’t bookstores just sue Amazon the way we sued the big chains in 1998? Simply put: we can’t afford to. Amazon is much bigger and much more powerful than the big book chains ever were. So we must find new ways to resist Amazon’s growth and influence. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">If Amazon is allowed to grow unchecked, it’s hard to know what exactly they’ll try to do. Jeff Bezos has spoken about how his ultimate goal is to colonize space. If Amazon continues to bulldoze everything in its path, he very well may achieve that goal. But here’s what else he’ll achieve: the destruction of countless American small businesses. The end of the ability to spend an hour quietly browsing an independent bookstore. The shuttering of grocery stores and co-ops. If Amazon grows unchecked, your neighbor’s house might be able to automatically call the cops on you because that house’s doorbell has flagged you as suspicious in a facial recognition database. If Amazon grows unchecked and its web services hold up more of the Internet’s backbone, might this single company have too much sway over what gets said or posted online? Before we let Amazon become as big as it wants to be, we must investigate what it stands for. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">To help people investigate what Amazon stands for, I’ve written this book. The book world is very good at talking amongst itself about Amazon’s effect. I decided it was time to bring that discussion to our customers, first through The Raven’s Twitter account, then through a zine called </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, and now through this book. It is an entry point, a beginner’s guide to resisting Amazon. There is much more to know and understand about Amazon than what is contained in these pages, but I’ve included suggestions for further reading for those who wish to dive deeper. This book is intended for those who are beginning to feel uneasy about Amazon. Hopefully it can serve as a guide for how to unplug from this dangerous company, as well as a brief summary of the compelling reasons to do so. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Half the chapters in </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> build a case against Amazon around central themes like “The Environment” or “Jobs” or “Shipping.” In between each of these case-against-Amazon chapters is a narrative interlude from the perspective of my small business. These interludes, hopefully, are quiet demonstrations of the power and potential of places like The Raven Book Store. They’re meant to empower and advocate for independent businesses, but also to demonstrate a little bit of what’s at stake if Amazon makes it harder for all of us to flourish. Finally, the book concludes with a chapter outlining concrete steps you can take to resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Despite the title of the book, this is about more than one company. I’ve framed this book around Amazon because Amazon is the most powerful, effective, and ruthless practitioner of a new kind of commerce, but many others are trying to learn from Amazon’s playbook. This new commerce is more than one company selling a lot of books—it’s a fundamental revision of how we view privacy. Of how we view a business’s role in American society. Of the limits on the power of a single business. Of our environment. In some ways, of what it means to be human. Amazon’s thinking represents a shift in the American way of life, and if you ask me, it’s a shift worth resisting. I am resolute in the idea that being human means more than being a source of data with which companies can sell you things. Being human is about things that can’t be measured in clicks, data, or money. If you ask me, we should resist companies that want to tear down those ways of being human. Good news: if you’ve read this far, you’re already on your way.</span></p>
			</div>
		</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:16:19 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:20 INFO  - Step 22 - I open font settings
2023-01-18 04:16:20 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:20 INFO  - Step 23 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA
2023-01-18 04:16:20 INFO  - Button 'setThemeSepia' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:21 INFO  - Step 24 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA background is correct
2023-01-18 04:16:22 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-01-18 04:16:22 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-01-18 04:16:22 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:23 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>resistamazon</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="resistamazon" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<div id="uNIy39yTDmKfNHTpiI4zDx8" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="heading-1 ParaOverride-9"><span class="CharOverride-15">Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-10"><span class="CharOverride-16"> Why </span><span class="CharOverride-16">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span></p><br />
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-17">B</span><span class="CharOverride-18">ooks. Every task I perform in every workday is somehow related to books. I open boxes full of them. I put them on the shelf. I order them. I return them. I hand them to customers I think will love them. I watch as a team of dedicated booksellers does all of the above alongside me. Every day I unlock the doors of my bookstore</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">The Raven Book Store in Lawrence, Kansas</span><span class="CharOverride-19">—</span><span class="CharOverride-18">so I can preach the importance of books alongside my team. Every day I go to work and I’m reminded that there can be a place for independent bookstores in 21st century America. I’m reminded that independent small businesses can carve a space to earn a living and shape their communities. I’m reminded that books, and those who sell them, are resilient and beloved.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Many of us in the independent bookstore world would fight to defend the idea of The Book with a capital B. It’s hard to even talk about how we feel about The Book without getting grandiose. We believe the right book can change the world. We believe the right book can grow empathy in its reader, and that empathy can blossom into positive change. We believe the right book can forever alter the course of the right reader’s life. It’s all high and mighty, but it’s true. We believe in these objects and their power, and our work is to help the right books get into the right hands.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Since 1995, we’ve watched as Amazon has become a bigger and bigger threat to that work. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">There has never been a company as big, powerful, and pervasive as Amazon. Amazon is disruptive to the ability of small businesses to stay afloat. Amazon is a continuation of the story begun when Walmart and other megastores began their rapid spread. Amazon is indeed the latest link in a chain of threats to the American retail small business, from shopping malls to chain megastores to online e-commerce giants, each acting in their own pernicious way to destroy the American downtown. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Yet Amazon is more dangerous than Walmart because it’s so much bigger, and it has its hands in so many more businessesses. Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing system that provides the data infrastructure for much of the Internet, from government servers to Netflix. It’s near impossible for anyone to use the Internet without Amazon’s silent participation. This alone means Amazon has a gigantic impact on everyday life. Beyond that, Amazon’s massive portfolio of companies and products mean Amazon has a hand in every Ring doorbell, every Whole Foods grocery purchase, every Audible audiobook, every Goodreads review, every article in the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">Washington Post</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, every shoe from Zappos, every stream on Twitch, plus many online advertisements and smart speakers and e-readers and TV shows. Amazon has even built its own nationwide delivery network; rather than work with USPS, UPS, and Fedex, Amazon has fashioned its own private version from the ground up, and the results are dangerous. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon executives regularly downplay Amazon’s size; in a PBS Frontline documentary Amazon CEO of Worldwide Commerce Jeff Wilke claims, “We’re 1% of the retail sales in the world, about.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">1</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> But what percentage of eBook sales does Amazon control? Of cloud hosting? Of online advertising? Of lobbying? Of groceries? Of online shoe sales? Of online book sales? A single company having a stake in so many different aspects of the market is dangerous. Through its Amazon Marketplace platform, Amazon acts as host for a third-party marketplace </span><span class="CharOverride-20">and</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> a competitor on that platform. Basically, Amazon is a referee and a player in the same game, and the game is the world’s largest online retail marketplace. Walmart is still a threat to American small businesses, but Walmart never did quite so </span><span class="CharOverride-20">much</span><span class="CharOverride-18">. It’s possible to argue, even, that Walmart is now trying to catch up to Amazon. Walmart is now just one of many large corporations trying to adapt to the Amazon world by taking pages from Amazon’s playbook.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon’s impact is huge. One of the world’s most valuable companies, it has caused havoc in every industry it has touched. My industry, books, happens to be the first industry at which Amazon took aim. Everybody in the book business feels Amazon’s might. Booksellers feel it the most in this way: it is possible to buy the latest bestseller on Amazon for less than the </span><span class="CharOverride-20">wholesale price</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> my bookstore pays. Let that sink in. A book that costs me $14 to put on my shelves could be for sale to </span><span class="CharOverride-20">customers</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> on Amazon for $10. It’s stunning: you can buy a book below cost and have it at your door tomorrow with free shipping. That fact alone underlies everything I do at The Raven. Even more, the cheapness of Amazon’s books serves to diminish the value of all books, regardless of where they’re sold.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">It’s so easy to buy things on Amazon, and millions of people know it. Amazon’s smiling boxes sprinkle stoops across the world. Their smiling vans double park on blocks in countless cities and their smiling semis haul down countless interstates. The massive shipping network required to get that box to you so cheap and so fast can be a strain on the environment, not to mention unsafe to its drivers and customers. The warehouses that feed that shipping network have injury rates high above industry average and are highly susceptible to outbreaks of deadly diseases like COVID-19. Ring home cameras make it far too easy to feed video data to police departments. Amazon Web Services earns lots of money, including from violent agencies like ICE. Amazon makes things easy; they don’t necessarily make them right.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Some may try to attribute the explosion of Amazon’s reach to Jeff Bezos’s business brilliance. However, even if Bezos had the right idea at the right time, a fleet of tax breaks and government benefits has helped Amazon rise to the pinnacle it occupies today. Nowhere is this better demonstrated than Amazon’s HQ2 search, a contest for cities to compete to host a second Amazon headquarters. Cities fell over themselves to offer Amazon the biggest possible portfolios of tax breaks and corporate welfare. It was a display of just how far governments would go to subsidize a trillion-dollar company. In 2018, Amazon made over $11 billion in profits and paid no federal income tax.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Every decision Amazon makes causes shockwaves in the industries that Amazon has—to borrow Silicon Valley parlance—disrupted. TV, shoes, groceries, web traffic, home security, e-commerce, books, e-books, audiobooks. They’ve all had to scramble to adapt to the force of the company founded by Jeff Bezos, the world’s richest man. The book-related decisions Amazon makes send ripples across the entire publishing industry like a boulder tossed into a pond. Maybe that’s too peaceful. Amazon’s effect on the book world is like a video you’d see in high school chemistry class: not a boulder tossed into a pond but a chunk of pure sodium that explodes the instant it touches water. Amazon accounts for half of all book sales in the United States. Booksellers, authors, libraries, publishers, wholesalers, agents, authors, designers—we all feel it. Amazon holds sway over every aspect of books and publishing. Again, Amazon, one single retailer, accounts for half of all books sold in the United States. That alone should be cause for concern. And that’s just the book industry. Even more concerning is Amazon’s effect on individual liberties, shipping infrastructure, workers’ rights, and the environment.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18"> We must resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Amazon was founded to disrupt the bookselling business. Rather than a small brick-and-mortar store with, say, 25,000 books, Amazon was, at its start, an online-only bookstore with millions of titles. Unlike so many people in the book industry, Bezos didn’t pick books out of a passion for reading or literacy. According to biographer Brad Stone, Bezos picked books because “they were pure commodities; a copy of a book in one store was identical to the same book carried in another.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">2</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> Further, “most important, there were three million books in print worldwide, far more than a Barnes &amp; Noble or a Borders superstore could ever stock.”</span><span class="CharOverride-21">3 </span><span class="CharOverride-18">Until Jeff Bezos came along, the book industry was built on curation; Amazon disrupted that model by simply selling everything. Amazon has since repeated this “everything store” model with countless other industries, but books were the first target, and one of the hardest hit. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Disruption doesn’t automatically equal progress. Amazon puts my business—and countless others like it—at risk. If we’re put out of business by Amazon’s disruption, it means more than just an empty storefront. A small business serves its community in many ways beyond the sale of retail goods. Communities are threatened if small businesses can no longer thrive thanks to Amazon’s reach. Even if Amazon doesn’t put bookstores out of business, it shrinks their market share, leaving fewer resources to compensate workers. If the world’s biggest retailer of books is working to devalue books, then working in the production and selling of books is less lucrative. The emotional joy of selling books is often viewed as a perk of the job, but you can’t buy groceries or medical treatment with the joy of selling books.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">The American small business, and indie bookstores in particular, have survived much bigger competition before. The Amazon fight isn’t the first time independent bookstores and small businesses have taken on larger competition in an effort to stake a claim. During Walmart’s expansion years, “shop local” movements sprang up across the country. Events like Small Business Saturday, Record Store Day, and Independent Bookstore Day aim to celebrate small businesses and their contributions. The craft beer explosion represents a successful small business resistance in the face of industry-dominating titans. The small-businesses-vs-corporate-titans fight even reached the courtroom: in the late 1990s, the American Booksellers Association sued Borders and Barnes &amp; Noble over predatory pricing methods similar to Amazon’s today.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">My bookstore still feels the remnants of the indies-vs-megastore fight: from our cash register you can see across the street to the empty building that housed a Borders Books &amp; Music from 1997-2011. There’s a bit of comfort in knowing we’re still open while the Borders is shuttered. So why can’t bookstores just sue Amazon the way we sued the big chains in 1998? Simply put: we can’t afford to. Amazon is much bigger and much more powerful than the big book chains ever were. So we must find new ways to resist Amazon’s growth and influence. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">If Amazon is allowed to grow unchecked, it’s hard to know what exactly they’ll try to do. Jeff Bezos has spoken about how his ultimate goal is to colonize space. If Amazon continues to bulldoze everything in its path, he very well may achieve that goal. But here’s what else he’ll achieve: the destruction of countless American small businesses. The end of the ability to spend an hour quietly browsing an independent bookstore. The shuttering of grocery stores and co-ops. If Amazon grows unchecked, your neighbor’s house might be able to automatically call the cops on you because that house’s doorbell has flagged you as suspicious in a facial recognition database. If Amazon grows unchecked and its web services hold up more of the Internet’s backbone, might this single company have too much sway over what gets said or posted online? Before we let Amazon become as big as it wants to be, we must investigate what it stands for. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">To help people investigate what Amazon stands for, I’ve written this book. The book world is very good at talking amongst itself about Amazon’s effect. I decided it was time to bring that discussion to our customers, first through The Raven’s Twitter account, then through a zine called </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18">, and now through this book. It is an entry point, a beginner’s guide to resisting Amazon. There is much more to know and understand about Amazon than what is contained in these pages, but I’ve included suggestions for further reading for those who wish to dive deeper. This book is intended for those who are beginning to feel uneasy about Amazon. Hopefully it can serve as a guide for how to unplug from this dangerous company, as well as a brief summary of the compelling reasons to do so. </span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Half the chapters in </span><span class="CharOverride-20">How to Resist Amazon and Why</span><span class="CharOverride-18"> build a case against Amazon around central themes like “The Environment” or “Jobs” or “Shipping.” In between each of these case-against-Amazon chapters is a narrative interlude from the perspective of my small business. These interludes, hopefully, are quiet demonstrations of the power and potential of places like The Raven Book Store. They’re meant to empower and advocate for independent businesses, but also to demonstrate a little bit of what’s at stake if Amazon makes it harder for all of us to flourish. Finally, the book concludes with a chapter outlining concrete steps you can take to resist Amazon.</span></p>
			<p class="Normal ParaOverride-11"><span class="CharOverride-18">Despite the title of the book, this is about more than one company. I’ve framed this book around Amazon because Amazon is the most powerful, effective, and ruthless practitioner of a new kind of commerce, but many others are trying to learn from Amazon’s playbook. This new commerce is more than one company selling a lot of books—it’s a fundamental revision of how we view privacy. Of how we view a business’s role in American society. Of the limits on the power of a single business. Of our environment. In some ways, of what it means to be human. Amazon’s thinking represents a shift in the American way of life, and if you ask me, it’s a shift worth resisting. I am resolute in the idea that being human means more than being a source of data with which companies can sell you things. Being human is about things that can’t be measured in clicks, data, or money. If you ask me, we should resist companies that want to tear down those ways of being human. Good news: if you’ve read this far, you’re already on your way.</span></p>
			</div>
		</body>
</html>
2023-01-18 04:16:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-01-18 04:16:23 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-01-18 04:16:24 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-01-18 04:16:26 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:31 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:16:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:16:33 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-01-18 04:16:34 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:16:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:16:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-01-18 04:16:38 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-01-18 04:16:38 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@6ef5ab08
