2023-08-03 14:33:06 INFO  - Scenario 'Epub: Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-03 14:33:06 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-03 14:33:37 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-03 14:33:37 INFO  - Session id - 6b7299b940caf80f4155fe9e03543fe95bd3ac3b
2023-08-03 14:33:37 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-03 14:33:37 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:39 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-03 14:33:40 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-03 14:33:40 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:40 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-03 14:33:42 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "Palace Bookshelf" on Add library screen
2023-08-03 14:33:42 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:45 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 14:33:45 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'Palace Bookshelf'
2023-08-03 14:33:47 INFO  - Button 'Palace Bookshelf' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:48 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "Palace Bookshelf" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-03 14:33:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:49 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:51 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:53 INFO  - Step 6 - Turn on test mode
2023-08-03 14:33:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:33:59 INFO  - Button 'Debug options button' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:00 INFO  - Step 7 - Enable hidden libraries
2023-08-03 14:34:00 INFO  - Swiping from coordinates (x:720; y:2324) to (x:720; y:435)
2023-08-03 14:34:02 INFO  - Button 'Hidden libraries button' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:03 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-03 14:34:03 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:24 INFO  - Step 9 - Add "A1QA Test Library" account by the logo
2023-08-03 14:34:24 INFO  - Button 'Logo' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:25 INFO  - Button 'Add library btn' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:26 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:28 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 14:34:28 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'A1QA Test Library'
2023-08-03 14:34:31 INFO  - Button 'A1QA Test Library' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:53 INFO  - Step 10 - Account "A1QA Test Library" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-03 14:34:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:55 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:56 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:59 INFO  - Step 11 - Enter credentials for "A1QA Test Library" account
2023-08-03 14:34:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:34:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:35:01 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:35:03 INFO  - Button 'A1QA Test Library' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:35:03 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-08-03 14:35:03 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: The Critique of Practical Reason Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: Apples Never Fall Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: Godsgrave Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: The Mystery of Mrs. Christie Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - bookName: Too Much and Never Enough Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 14:35:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-08-03 14:35:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-03 14:35:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-03 14:35:10 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:35:16 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:35:16 INFO  - Step 12 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-03 14:35:38 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:35:38 INFO  - Step 13 - Open Catalog
2023-08-03 14:35:38 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:36:00 INFO  - Step 14 - Open search modal
2023-08-03 14:36:20 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:36:22 INFO  - Step 15 - Search for "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" and save bookName as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-03 14:36:23 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-03 14:36:23 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes'
2023-08-03 14:36:26 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-03 14:36:29 INFO  - Step 16 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-03 14:36:31 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:36:33 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:36:37 INFO  - Step 17 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-03 14:36:38 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:36:39 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:36:39 INFO  - Step 18 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-03 14:36:41 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:36:43 INFO  - Step 19 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-03 14:36:43 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-03 14:37:04 INFO  - Step 20 - Open font settings
2023-08-03 14:37:04 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:05 INFO  - Step 21 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-03 14:37:05 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:06 INFO  - Step 22 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-03 14:37:07 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-03 14:37:07 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-03 14:37:09 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-03 14:37:09 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>A Scandal in Bohemia</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="a-scandal-in-bohemia" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.1.1">A Scandal in Bohemia</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="a-scandal-in-bohemia-1" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:roman">
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.1">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.1">To Sherlock Holmes she is always</span><em>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.2">the</span>
					</em>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.1">woman.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.2">I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.3">In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.4">It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.5">All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.6">He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.7">He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.8">They were admirable things for the observer﻿—excellent for drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.9">But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.10">Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.11">And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.1">I had seen little of Holmes lately.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.2">My marriage had drifted us away from each other.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.3">My own complete happiness, and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.4">He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.5">From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings:</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.6">of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.7">Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.1">One night﻿—it was on the</span>
					<time>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.2">twentieth of March, 1888</span>
					</time>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.1">﻿—I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when my way led me through Baker Street.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.2">As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.3">His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.4">He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.5">To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.6">He was at work again.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.7">He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.8">I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.1">His manner was not effusive.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.2">It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.3">With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.4">Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.1">“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.2">“I think, Watson, that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.1">“Seven!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.2">I answered.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.1">“Indeed, I should have thought a little more.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.2">Just a trifle more, I fancy, Watson.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.3">And in practice again, I observe.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.4">You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.1">“Then, how do you know?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.15.1">“I see it, I deduce it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.15.2">How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.1">“My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.2">You would certainly have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.3">It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.4">As to Mary Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there, again, I fail to see how you work it out.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.17.1">He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.1">“It is simplicity itself,” said he; “my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.2">Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.3">Hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.4">As to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope, I must be dull, indeed, if I do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.1">I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.2">“When I hear you give your reasons,” I remarked, “the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.3">And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.1">“Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself down into an armchair.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.2">“You see, but you do not observe.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.3">The distinction is clear.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.4">For example, you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.21.1">“Frequently.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.22.1">“How often?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.23.1">“Well, some hundreds of times.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.24.1">“Then how many are there?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.25.1">“How many?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.25.2">I don’t know.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.1">“Quite so!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.2">You have not observed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.3">And yet you have seen.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.4">That is just my point.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.5">Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have both seen and observed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.6">By the way, since you are interested in these little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences, you may be interested in this.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.7">He threw over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.8">“It came by the last post,” said he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.9">“Read it aloud.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.27.1">The note was undated, and without either signature or address.</span>
				</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p class="first-child">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.1">“There will call upon you tonight, at a quarter to eight o’clock,” it said, “a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.2">Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.3">This account of you we have from all quarters received.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.4">Be in your chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask.”</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.30.1">“This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.30.2">“What do you imagine that it means?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.1">“I have no data yet.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.2">It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.3">Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.4">But the note itself.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.5">What do you deduce from it?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.32.1">I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.33.1">“The man who wrote it was presumably well to do,” I remarked, endeavouring to imitate my companion’s processes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.33.2">“Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.33.3">It is peculiarly strong and stiff.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.34.1">“Peculiar﻿—that is the very word,” said Holmes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.34.2">“It is not an English paper at all.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.34.3">Hold it up to the light.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.35.1">I did so, and saw a large</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.35.2">E</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.36.1">with a small</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.37.1">g</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.38.1">, a</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.39.1">P</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.40.1">, and a large</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.41.1">G</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.42.1">with a small</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.43.1">t</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.44.1">woven into the texture of the paper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.46.1">“What do you make of that?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.46.2">asked Holmes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.47.1">“The name of the maker, no doubt; or his monogram, rather.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.48.1">“Not at all.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.48.2">The</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.48.3">G</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.49.1">with the small</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.50.1">t</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.51.1">stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’ which is the German for ‘Company.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.51.2">It is a customary contraction like our ‘Co.’</span><i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.52.1">P</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.1">, of course, stands for ‘Papier.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.2">Now for the ‘Eg.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.3">Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.4">He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.5">“Eglow, Eglonitz﻿—here we are, Egria.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.6">It is in a German-speaking country﻿—in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.7">‘Remarkable as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous glass-factories and paper-mills.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.8">Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of that?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.53.9">His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.55.1">“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.1">“Precisely.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.2">And the man who wrote the note is a German.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.3">Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence﻿—‘This account of you we have from all quarters received.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.4">A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.5">It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.6">It only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.56.7">And here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to resolve all our doubts.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.57.1">As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.57.2">Holmes whistled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.58.1">“A pair, by the sound,” said he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.58.2">“Yes,” he continued, glancing out of the window.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.58.3">“A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.58.4">A hundred and fifty guineas apiece.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.58.5">There’s money in this case, Watson, if there is nothing else.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.59.1">“I think that I had better go, Holmes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.60.1">“Not a bit, Doctor.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.60.2">Stay where you are.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.60.3">I am lost without my Boswell.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.60.4">And this promises to be interesting.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.60.5">It would be a pity to miss it.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.61.1">“But your client﻿—”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.62.1">“Never mind him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.62.2">I may want your help, and so may he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.62.3">Here he comes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.62.4">Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.63.1">A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage, paused immediately outside the door.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.63.2">Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.64.1">“Come in!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.64.2">said Holmes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.1">A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.2">His dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad taste.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.3">Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat, while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.4">Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.5">He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black vizard mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand was still raised to it as he entered.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.65.6">From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip, and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.66.1">“You had my note?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.66.2">he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.66.3">“I told you that I would call.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.66.4">He looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.67.1">“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.67.2">“This is my friend and colleague, Dr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.67.3">Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.67.4">Whom have I the honour to address?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.68.1">“You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.68.2">I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.68.3">If not, I should much prefer to communicate with you alone.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.69.1">I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.69.2">“It is both, or none,” said he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.69.3">“You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.70.1">The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.70.2">“Then I must begin,” said he, “by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.70.3">At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.71.1">“I promise,” said Holmes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.72.1">“And I.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.73.1">“You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.73.2">“The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.74.1">“I was aware of it,” said Holmes dryly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.75.1">“The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.75.2">To speak plainly, the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein, hereditary kings of Bohemia.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.76.1">“I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes, settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.77.1">Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid, lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.77.2">Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.78.1">“If your Majesty would condescend to state your case,” he remarked, “I should be better able to advise you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.79.1">The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.79.2">Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.79.3">“You are right,” he cried; “I am the King.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.79.4">Why should I attempt to conceal it?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.80.1">“Why, indeed?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.80.2">murmured Holmes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.80.3">“Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of Bohemia.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.81.1">“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, “you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.81.2">Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.81.3">I have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.82.1">“Then, pray consult,” said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.83.1">“The facts are briefly these:</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.83.2">Some five years ago, during a lengthy visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress, Irene Adler.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.83.3">The name is no doubt familiar to you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.84.1">“Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.84.2">For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.84.3">In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.1">“Let me see!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.2">said Holmes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.3">“Hum!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.4">Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.5">Contralto﻿—hum!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.6">La Scala, hum!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.7">Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw﻿—yes!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.8">Retired from operatic stage﻿—ha!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.9">Living in London﻿—quite so!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.85.10">Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting those letters back.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.86.1">“Precisely so.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.86.2">But how﻿—”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.87.1">“Was there a secret marriage?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.88.1">“None.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.89.1">“No legal papers or certificates?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.90.1">“None.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.91.1">“Then I fail to follow your Majesty.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.91.2">If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.92.1">“There is the writing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.93.1">“Pooh, pooh!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.93.2">Forgery.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.94.1">“My private notepaper.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.95.1">“Stolen.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.96.1">“My own seal.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.97.1">“Imitated.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.98.1">“My photograph.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.99.1">“Bought.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.100.1">“We were both in the photograph.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.101.1">“Oh, dear!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.101.2">That is very bad!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.101.3">Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.102.1">“I was mad﻿—insane.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.103.1">“You have compromised yourself seriously.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.104.1">“I was only Crown Prince then.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.104.2">I was young.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.104.3">I am but thirty now.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.105.1">“It must be recovered.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.106.1">“We have tried and failed.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.107.1">“Your Majesty must pay.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.107.2">It must be bought.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.108.1">“She will not sell.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.109.1">“Stolen, then.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.110.1">“Five attempts have been made.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.110.2">Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.110.3">Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.110.4">Twice she has been waylaid.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.110.5">There has been no result.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.111.1">“No sign of it?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.112.1">“Absolutely none.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.113.1">Holmes laughed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.113.2">“It is quite a pretty little problem,” said he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.114.1">“But a very serious one to me,” returned the King reproachfully.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.115.1">“Very, indeed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.115.2">And what does she propose to do with the photograph?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.116.1">“To ruin me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.117.1">“But how?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.118.1">“I am about to be married.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.119.1">“So I have heard.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.120.1">“To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of Scandinavia.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.120.2">You may know the strict principles of her family.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.120.3">She is herself the very soul of delicacy.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.120.4">A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.121.1">“And Irene Adler?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.1">“Threatens to send them the photograph.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.2">And she will do it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.3">I know that she will do it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.4">You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.5">She has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most resolute of men.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.122.6">Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no lengths to which she would not go﻿—none.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.123.1">“You are sure that she has not sent it yet?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.124.1">“I am sure.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.125.1">“And why?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.126.1">“Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.126.2">That will be next Monday.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.127.1">“Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.127.2">“That is very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.127.3">Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.128.1">“Certainly.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.128.2">You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.129.1">“Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.130.1">“Pray do so.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.130.2">I shall be all anxiety.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.131.1">“Then, as to money?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.132.1">“You have</span><i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.132.2">carte blanche</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.133.1">.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.135.1">“Absolutely?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.136.1">“I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.137.1">“And for present expenses?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.138.1">The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.139.1">“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.140.1">Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his notebook and handed it to him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.141.1">“And Mademoiselle’s address?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.141.2">he asked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.142.1">“Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.142.2">John’s Wood.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.143.1">Holmes took a note of it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.143.2">“One other question,” said he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.143.3">“Was the photograph a cabinet?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.144.1">“It was.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.145.1">“Then, good night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.145.2">And good night, Watson,” he added, as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.145.3">“If you will be good enough to call tomorrow afternoon at three o’clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-scandal-in-bohemia-2" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:roman">
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.147.1">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.1">At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.2">The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o’clock in the morning.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.3">I sat down beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.4">I was already deeply interested in his inquiry, for, though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded, still, the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.5">Indeed, apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the quick, subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.148.6">So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.149.1">It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes, walked into the room.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.149.2">Accustomed as I was to my friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises, I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.149.3">With a nod he vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.149.4">Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.150.1">“Well, really!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.150.2">he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.151.1">“What is it?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.152.1">“It’s quite too funny.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.152.2">I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning, or what I ended by doing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.153.1">“I can’t imagine.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.153.2">I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.1">“Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.2">I will tell you, however.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.3">I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.4">There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.5">Be one of them, and you will know all that there is to know.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.6">I soon found Briony Lodge.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.7">It is a</span><i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.154.8">bijou</span>
					</i>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.155.1">villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to the road, two stories.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.155.2">Chubb lock to the door.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.155.3">Large sitting-room on the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.155.4">Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.155.5">I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting anything else of interest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.157.1">“I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.157.2">I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in exchange twopence, a glass of half-and-half, two fills of shag tobacco, and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested, but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.158.1">“And what of Irene Adler?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.158.2">I asked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.1">“Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down in that part.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.2">She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.3">So say the Serpentine-mews, to a man.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.4">She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.5">Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.6">Has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.7">He is dark, handsome, and dashing, never calls less than once a day, and often twice.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.8">He is a Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.9">Godfrey Norton, of the Inner Temple.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.10">See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.11">They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew all about him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.159.12">When I had listened to all they had to tell, I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think over my plan of campaign.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.1">“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.2">He was a lawyer.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.3">That sounded ominous.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.4">What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.5">Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.6">If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.7">If the latter, it was less likely.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.8">On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman’s chambers in the Temple.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.9">It was a delicate point, and it widened the field of my inquiry.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.160.10">I fear that I bore you with these details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties, if you are to understand the situation.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.161.1">“I am following you closely,” I answered.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.162.1">“I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.162.2">He was a remarkably handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached﻿—evidently the man of whom I had heard.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.162.3">He appeared to be in a great hurry, shouted to the cabman to wait, and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.1">“He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking excitedly, and waving his arms.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.2">Of her I could see nothing.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.3">Presently he emerged, looking even more flurried than before.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.4">As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly, ‘Drive like the devil,’ he shouted, ‘first to Gross &amp; Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.5">Monica in the Edgeware Road.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.163.6">Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.164.1">“Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.164.2">It hadn’t pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.164.3">I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with a face that a man might die for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.165.1">“ ‘The Church of St.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.165.2">Monica, John,’ she cried, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.1">“This was quite too good to lose, Watson.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.2">I was just balancing whether I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.3">The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could object.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.4">‘The Church of St.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.5">Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.166.6">It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.1">“My cabby drove fast.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.2">I don’t think I ever drove faster, but the others were there before us.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.3">The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.4">I paid the man and hurried into the church.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.5">There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with them.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.6">They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.7">I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.167.8">Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.168.1">“ ‘Thank God,’ he cried.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.168.2">‘You’ll do.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.168.3">Come!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.168.4">Come!’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.169.1">“ ‘What then?’</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.169.2">I asked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.170.1">“ ‘Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won’t be legal.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.171.1">“I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to Godfrey Norton, bachelor.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.171.2">It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the clergyman beamed on me in front.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.171.3">It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.171.4">It seems that there had been some informality about their license, that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.171.5">The bride gave me a sovereign, and I mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.172.1">“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I; “and what then?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.1">“Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.2">It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.3">At the church door, however, they separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.4">‘I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.5">I heard no more.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.173.6">They drove away in different directions, and I went off to make my own arrangements.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.174.1">“Which are?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.175.1">“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.175.2">“I have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still this evening.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.175.3">By the way, Doctor, I shall want your cooperation.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.176.1">“I shall be delighted.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.177.1">“You don’t mind breaking the law?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.178.1">“Not in the least.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.179.1">“Nor running a chance of arrest?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.180.1">“Not in a good cause.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.181.1">“Oh, the cause is excellent!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.182.1">“Then I am your man.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.183.1">“I was sure that I might rely on you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.184.1">“But what is it you wish?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.1">“When Mrs.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.2">Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.3">Now,” he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not much time.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.4">It is nearly five now.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.5">In two hours we must be on the scene of action.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.6">Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at seven.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.185.7">We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.186.1">“And what then?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.187.1">“You must leave that to me.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.187.2">I have already arranged what is to occur.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.187.3">There is only one point on which I must insist.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.187.4">You must not interfere, come what may.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.187.5">You understand?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.188.1">“I am to be neutral?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.1">“To do nothing whatever.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.2">There will probably be some small unpleasantness.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.3">Do not join in it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.4">It will end in my being conveyed into the house.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.5">Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.189.6">You are to station yourself close to that open window.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.190.1">“Yes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.191.1">“You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.192.1">“Yes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.193.1">“And when I raise my hand﻿—so﻿—you will throw into the room what I give you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.193.2">You quite follow me?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.194.1">“Entirely.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.1">“It is nothing very formidable,” he said, taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.2">“It is an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.3">Your task is confined to that.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.4">When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.5">You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.195.6">I hope that I have made myself clear?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.196.1">“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.197.1">“Precisely.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.198.1">“Then you may entirely rely on me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.199.1">“That is excellent.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.199.2">I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.1">He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.2">His broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympathetic smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.3">John Hare alone could have equalled.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.4">It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.5">His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.200.6">The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.201.1">It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.201.2">It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming of its occupant.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.201.3">The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description, but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.201.4">On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.201.5">There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.202.1">“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the house, “this marriage rather simplifies matters.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.202.2">The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.202.3">The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.202.4">Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.202.5">Now the question is, Where are we to find the photograph?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.203.1">“Where, indeed?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.1">“It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.2">It is cabinet size.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.3">Too large for easy concealment about a woman’s dress.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.4">She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.5">Two attempts of the sort have already been made.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.204.6">We may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.205.1">“Where, then?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.1">“Her banker or her lawyer.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.2">There is that double possibility.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.3">But I am inclined to think neither.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.4">Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.5">Why should she hand it over to anyone else?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.6">She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.7">Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.8">It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.206.9">It must be in her own house.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.207.1">“But it has twice been burgled.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.208.1">“Pshaw!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.208.2">They did not know how to look.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.209.1">“But how will you look?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.210.1">“I will not look.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.211.1">“What then?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.212.1">“I will get her to show me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.213.1">“But she will refuse.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.214.1">“She will not be able to.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.214.2">But I hear the rumble of wheels.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.214.3">It is her carriage.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.214.4">Now carry out my orders to the letter.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.1">As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.2">It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.3">As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.4">A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder, who was equally hot upon the other side.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.5">A blow was struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.6">Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but, just as he reached her, he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely down his face.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.7">At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.215.8">Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking back into the street.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.216.1">“Is the poor gentleman much hurt?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.216.2">she asked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.217.1">“He is dead,” cried several voices.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.218.1">“No, no, there’s life in him!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.218.2">shouted another.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.218.3">“But he’ll be gone before you can get him to hospital.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.219.1">“He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.219.2">“They would have had the lady’s purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.219.3">They were a gang, and a rough one, too.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.219.4">Ah, he’s breathing now.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.220.1">“He can’t lie in the street.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.220.2">May we bring him in, marm?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.221.1">“Surely.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.221.2">Bring him into the sitting-room.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.221.3">There is a comfortable sofa.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.221.4">This way, please!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.1">Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.2">The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.3">I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.4">And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had entrusted to me.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.5">I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.6">After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.222.7">We are but preventing her from injuring another.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.1">Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.2">A maid rushed across and threw open the window.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.3">At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.4">The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and ill﻿—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant maids﻿—joined in a general shriek of “Fire!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.5">Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.6">I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.7">Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend’s arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.223.8">He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.224.1">“You did it very nicely, Doctor,” he remarked.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.224.2">“Nothing could have been better.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.224.3">It is all right.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.225.1">“You have the photograph?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.226.1">“I know where it is.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.227.1">“And how did you find out?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.228.1">“She showed me, as I told you she would.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.229.1">“I am still in the dark.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.230.1">“I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he, laughing.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.230.2">“The matter was perfectly simple.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.230.3">You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.230.4">They were all engaged for the evening.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.231.1">“I guessed as much.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.232.1">“Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.232.2">I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous spectacle.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.232.3">It is an old trick.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.233.1">“That also I could fathom.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.1">“Then they carried me in.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.2">She was bound to have me in.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.3">What else could she do?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.4">And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.5">It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.234.6">They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.235.1">“How did that help you?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.1">“It was all-important.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.2">When a woman thinks that her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.3">It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken advantage of it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.4">In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.5">A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.6">Now it was clear to me that our lady of today had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.7">She would rush to secure it.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.8">The alarm of fire was admirably done.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.9">The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.10">She responded beautifully.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.11">The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.12">She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.13">When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.14">I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.15">I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly, it seemed safer to wait.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.236.16">A little over-precipitance may ruin all.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.237.1">“And now?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.237.2">I asked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.238.1">“Our quest is practically finished.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.238.2">I shall call with the King tomorrow, and with you, if you care to come with us.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.238.3">We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.238.4">It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.239.1">“And when will you call?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.240.1">“At eight in the morning.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.240.2">She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.240.3">Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.240.4">I must wire to the King without delay.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.241.1">We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.241.2">He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.242.1">“Good night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.243.1">There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.244.1">“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit street.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.244.2">“Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-scandal-in-bohemia-3" role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:roman">
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.246.1">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.247.1">I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.248.1">“You have really got it!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.248.2">he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.249.1">“Not yet.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.250.1">“But you have hopes?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.251.1">“I have hopes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.252.1">“Then, come.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.252.2">I am all impatience to be gone.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.253.1">“We must have a cab.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.254.1">“No, my brougham is waiting.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.255.1">“Then that will simplify matters.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.255.2">We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.256.1">“Irene Adler is married,” remarked Holmes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.257.1">“Married!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.257.2">When?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.258.1">“Yesterday.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.259.1">“But to whom?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.260.1">“To an English lawyer named Norton.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.261.1">“But she could not love him.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.262.1">“I am in hopes that she does.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.263.1">“And why in hopes?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.264.1">“Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.264.2">If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.264.3">If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty’s plan.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.1">“It is true.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.2">And yet﻿—!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.3">Well!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.4">I wish she had been of my own station!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.5">What a queen she would have made!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.265.6">He relapsed into a moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.266.1">The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the steps.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.266.2">She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.267.1">“Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.267.2">Sherlock Holmes, I believe?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.267.3">said she.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.268.1">“I am Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.268.2">Holmes,” answered my companion, looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.269.1">“Indeed!</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.269.2">My mistress told me that you were likely to call.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.269.3">She left this morning with her husband by the 5:</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.269.4">15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.270.1">“What!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.270.2">Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and surprise.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.270.3">“Do you mean that she has left England?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.271.1">“Never to return.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.272.1">“And the papers?”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.272.2">asked the King hoarsely.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.272.3">“All is lost.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.1">“We shall see.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.2">He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room, followed by the King and myself.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.3">The furniture was scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.4">Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.5">The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.6">To be left till called for.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.7">My friend tore it open, and we all three read it together.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.273.8">It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:</span>
				</p>
				<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p class="first-child">
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.274.1">“</span>
						<span epub:type="z3998:saluation">
							<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.274.2">My Dear</span>
							<span class="epub-type-z3998-recipient" epub:type="z3998:recipient">
								<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.274.3">Mr.</span>
								<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.274.4">Sherlock Holmes</span>
							</span>
						</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.1">﻿—You really did it very well.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.2">You took me in completely.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.3">Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a suspicion.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.4">But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I began to think.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.5">I had been warned against you months ago.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.6">I had been told that, if the King employed an agent, it would certainly be you.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.7">And your address had been given me.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.8">Yet, with all this, you made me reveal what you wanted to know.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.9">Even after I became suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old clergyman.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.10">But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.11">Male costume is nothing new to me.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.12">I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.276.13">I sent John, the coachman, to watch you, ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came down just as you departed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.278.1">“Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.278.2">Sherlock Holmes.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.278.3">Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good night, and started for the Temple to see my husband.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.1">“We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by so formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you call tomorrow.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.2">As to the photograph, your client may rest in peace.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.3">I love and am loved by a better man than he.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.4">The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.5">I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.6">I leave a photograph which he might care to possess; and I remain, dear Mr.</span>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.279.7">Sherlock Holmes,</span>
					</p>
					<footer>
						<p class="first-child epub-type-z3998-valediction" epub:type="z3998:valediction">
							<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.280.1">“Very truly yours,</span>
						</p>
						<p class="signature epub-type-z3998-sender" epub:type="z3998:sender">
							<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.281.1">“Irene Norton,</span><i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
								<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.281.2">née</span>
							</i>
							<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.282.1">Adler.”</span>
						</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.286.1">“What a woman﻿—oh, what a woman!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.286.2">cried the King of Bohemia, when we had all three read this epistle.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.286.3">“Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.286.4">Would she not have made an admirable queen?</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.286.5">Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.287.1">“From what I have seen of the lady, she seems, indeed, to be on a very different level to your Majesty,” said Holmes coldly.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.287.2">“I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty’s business to a more successful conclusion.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.288.1">“On the contrary, my dear sir,” cried the King; “nothing could be more successful.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.288.2">I know that her word is inviolate.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.288.3">The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.289.1">“I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.290.1">“I am immensely indebted to you.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.290.2">Pray tell me in what way I can reward you.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.290.3">This ring﻿—” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.291.1">“Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly,” said Holmes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.292.1">“You have but to name it.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.293.1">“This photograph!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.294.1">The King stared at him in amazement.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.295.1">“Irene’s photograph!”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.295.2">he cried.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.295.3">“Certainly, if you wish it.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.296.1">“I thank your Majesty.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.296.2">Then there is no more to be done in the matter.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.296.3">I have the honour to wish you a very good morning.”</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.296.4">He bowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.297.1">And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.297.2">Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman’s wit.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.297.3">He used to make merry over the cleverness of women, but I have not heard him do it of late.</span>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.297.4">And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable title of</span><em>
						<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.297.5">the</span>
					</em>
					<span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.298.1">woman.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
2023-08-03 14:37:09 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-03 14:37:10 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-03 14:37:12 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-03 14:37:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:16 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:17 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:18 INFO  - Button 'A1QA Test Library' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:37:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:37:22 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-03 14:37:43 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-03 14:37:45 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-03 14:37:45 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2bfa4264
