2023-04-19 20:32:11 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-04-19 20:32:11 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-04-19 20:32:43 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-04-19 20:32:43 INFO  - Session id - 5567b800dcb574d997a1872a85008a99855ef882
2023-04-19 20:32:43 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-04-19 20:32:43 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:45 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-04-19 20:32:46 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-04-19 20:32:46 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:46 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-04-19 20:32:48 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-04-19 20:32:48 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-04-19 20:32:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-04-19 20:32:52 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:53 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-04-19 20:32:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:54 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:55 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:57 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-04-19 20:32:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:32:58 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:33:00 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:33:01 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-04-19 20:33:01 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-04-19 20:33:02 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-04-19 20:33:02 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-04-19 20:33:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-04-19 20:33:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-04-19 20:33:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-04-19 20:33:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-04-19 20:33:05 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:33:16 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:33:17 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-04-19 20:33:38 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:33:38 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-04-19 20:33:38 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:02 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-04-19 20:34:22 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:23 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-04-19 20:34:23 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-04-19 20:34:23 INFO  - randomBookName: Disa s Battle
2023-04-19 20:34:24 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-19 20:34:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Disa s Battle'
2023-04-19 20:34:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-04-19 20:34:28 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-19 20:34:30 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:34:31 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:37 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-04-19 20:34:37 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:34:38 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:39 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-19 20:34:39 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:40 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-04-19 20:34:40 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-04-19 20:34:54 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-04-19 20:34:55 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:55 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-04-19 20:34:55 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:34:56 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-19 20:34:56 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:34:56 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-19 20:34:57 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:34:57 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Disa's Battle-1.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788711755600.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">1.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p7">From the top of the crater, where Disa and her father are standing, they can see all the way over to the gigantic entrance to the<i> Black Castles.</i></p>
         <p id="p8">It is in there, among the twisted lava pillars, that Alva, Disa’s twin sister, is kept. Or maybe she is even further away – <i>behind</i> the<i> Black Castles</i>!</p>
         <p id="p9">Disa is going to save Alva using the brimstone-buttercup. But will Alva be frozen, like their father was? And what is going to happen if she does not succeed in saving Alva? Then Disa will be alone forever. But not alone like before, now that she has her father! Disa takes her father’s hand and squeezes it. It feels soft and warm.</p>
         <p id="p10">“We’ll stay here and relax for the rest of the day,” her father says. “We’ve been driving all night, and we need some sleep. As soon as it gets dark, we’ll sneak into the<i> Black Castles. </i>The humans call it the Dimmur Fortress, but it was built by nature. Volcanoes sent fire and melted rocks across the landscape.”</p>
         <p id="p11">“Does anyone live in the<i> Black Castles</i>?” Disa asks.</p>
         <p id="p12">“Yes, although everything is barren and deserted, it is full of life,” Disa’s father says. “Trolls, elves and dwarfs live in the cliffs and the rocks. But strangely enough, there are no nymphs.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line4"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p13">Disa’s father becomes aware of Kamban, who is standing next to them. “You can drive back home as soon as you’re ready!”</p>
         <p id="p14">“I would rather stay here with you guys,” Kamban says.</p>
         <p id="p15">“No. Your parents have no idea where you are,” Asbjorn says. “Besides, the trip to the<i> Black Castles</i> might be dangerous. I would never forgive myself if something were to happen to you.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“But you’ll need the car to get back!” Kamban says eagerly. “Besides, elves don’t need nearly as much sleep as nymphs and humans do.”</p>
         <p id="p17">“You heard what I said,” Asbjorn says sternly.</p>
         <p id="p18">Kamban kicks a rock, and it hits the water at the bottom of the crater with a <i>plop! </i>He looks dissatisfied, but does not say anything else.</p>
         <p id="p19">Then they follow the path back down from the crater, and Disa suddenly realizes how tired and hungry she feels.</p>
         <p id="p20">“We’re lucky,” her father says, as if he has read Disa’s mind. “There are plenty of crowberries and blueberries. Let’s eat as many as we can.”</p>
         <p id="p21">But Disa thinks that crowberries are bitter and dry. Luckily, the blueberries have a richer, sweeter taste. It is the first time she eats berries directly from the bush. At the Children’s Shelter, they always came from a bag in the freezer.</p>
         <p id="p22">Asbjorn has picked ferns and heather, and made them a bed. The sun is high in the sky and it is so warm that Disa takes off her coat.</p>
         <p id="p23">Full, and in a strangely light mood, she lies down between Kamban and her father, and licks the red berry juice off her hands. The heather smells sweet and nice. But there is also another smell, the smell of her father. It is a new smell, but somehow, it feels familiar.</p>
         <p id="p24">Before she falls asleep, she wonders whether Regitze has noticed that she is missing. Maybe she has even noticed that the clown is gone too, and then…</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line5"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p25">Disa wakes up because she is cold. The sun has moved. She is just about to turn around when she catches a glimpse of something white. Then she hears a dry rattle, and spots the tail of an arctic fox disappearing into the grass. A moment later, she is asleep again.</p>
         <p id="p26">The next time she wakes up, it is dark. The sky is overcast. It must be nighttime.</p>
         <p id="p27">“It’s good you’re awake, Disa, my own. It’s time to go,” her father says. “We had better wake Kamban, even though he’s sleeping like a log.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line6"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p28">They find Kamban’s car, which is hidden under a cover and some gravel.</p>
         <p id="p29">“Get home safely, you who needs no sleep. Say hello to your mother for me, and let her know that her son is a good kid,” her father says, and shakes Kamban’s hand.</p>
         <p id="p30">Kamban blushes all the way up to his ears. Then he gets in his car, waves and drives away.</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line7"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p31">When Disa and her father can no longer see Kamban’s car, they start walking towards the entrance to the<i> Black Castles</i>.</p>
         <p id="p32">It is dark. Darker than it is outside. It is probably because of the tall lava pillars. The air feels cold.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Are you hungry?” Her father turns his head and looks at her.</p>
         <p id="p34">They have not eaten anything since the berries this morning. Disa shakes her head.</p>
         <p id="p35">“I’m hungry,” her father says. “We’ll go to the Blue-folks and get some food. Without anything to eat or drink, we won’t get far.”</p>
         <p id="p36">“Who are the Blue-folks?” Disa looks puzzled.</p>
         <p id="p37">“They’re my friends,” her father says. “They don’t live far from here.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line8"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p38">Disa walks right behind her father, and she notices how relaxing it is to walk in someone else’s footsteps. It feels like something she has done before. Later, when they come to a swampy area where they have to jump from mound to mound, she has that same familiar feeling again. Disa measures the distance with her eyes and lands safely on each rocking mound. She moves lightly and naturally, as if her body has its own knowledge.</p>
         <p id="p39">“We’ll be there soon,” her father says when they get out of the swampy area.</p>
         <p id="p40">Dark, pillar-shaped cliffs are lined up around them, like walls with sharp furrows, shining faintly. It is completely quiet.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Where do the Blue-folks live?” Disa asks. “I don’t see any caves around here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">“The Blue-folks don’t live in caves,” her father explains. “They’re considered royalty amongst the elves and they live in castles- the<i> Black Castles</i>.”</p>
         <p id="p43">Disa’s father has stopped at the foot of the tall lava pillars. He presses his hand against one of them.</p>
         <p id="p44">A deep sound comes from within the mountain, and for a long time, nothing happens. Then a door opens. Disa had not noticed it before. An elf sticks out his head.</p>
         <p id="p45">“Asbjorn! Is it really you?” the elf says. “And who is the girl you brought along with you?”</p>
         <p id="p46">Disa is embarrassed. She had almost expected the elf to have a blue face!</p>
         <p id="p47">“This is my daughter Disa,” her father says proudly, putting his arm around her shoulders. “She found the brimstone-buttercup and freed me from the curse. Now we’re looking for Alva, my other daughter. Disa’s sister.”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is an honor to meet someone who has found the brimstone-buttercup,” the elf says, and bows his head in respect. “My name is Naddi. Come on inside and meet my family.”</p>
         <p id="p49">They go into the mountain and further down a narrow hallway. There are torches along the walls. Disa lets her finger slide over the cliff wall. It is smooth as silk. A couple of steps take them upstairs into a large room with a fireplace, where a big fire burns.</p>
         <p id="p50">A woman is sitting by the loom close by, working. When she sees them, she gets up and walks towards them. Her dress is the most beautiful blue color Disa has ever seen. Behind her, a couple of children appear- a girl and a boy, who look like twins.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Welcome,” she says with a smile. “It has been a long time since your last visit, Asbjorn. Who is it you have brought with you?”</p>
         <p id="p52">Asbjorn explains everything to her, and the children stare at Disa. It is clear that they have heard of the powers of the brimstone-buttercup. And now there is a girl right in front of them who has found it herself!</p>
         <p id="p53">“Tell us how you found it!” they all ask at once.</p>
         <p id="p54">“No. Now we have to get you something to eat,” the elf woman says, and disappears with the children into another room. Shortly after, the big, round table in the middle of the room is filled with goodies. There are cold lamb chops and salad with angelica, crowberries and plants that Disa has never tasted before. Afterwards, there is blueberry pie with skýr and wine.</p>
         <p id="p55">“This wine is nice,” Asbjorn says.</p>
         <p id="p56">“Pour some for everyone, grown-ups as well as children,” the elf says cheerfully. “Tonight we will eat, drink and sleep. We are celebrating that Disa has found the brimstone-buttercup and freed you, Asbjorn, from the curse. You have to be fully fed and rested for your journey tomorrow.”</p>
         <p id="p57">The two men get more and more cheery, and then they begin to sing.</p>
         <p id="p58"><i>The mountain will sing</i></p>
         <p id="p59"><i>As the day turns long</i></p>
         <p id="p60"><i>As the wind turns strong</i></p>
         <p id="p61"><i>On the cheek of the girl…</i></p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line9"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p62">The twins have fallen asleep on the bed. The wine has made Disa feel warm and brave.</p>
         <p id="p63">“Can I ask you something?” she says, and looks at the elf woman.</p>
         <p id="p64">“What would you like to know, my dear?”</p>
         <p id="p65">“Why are you called the Blue-folks?”</p>
         <p id="p66"><i>“</i><i>Blue-folks!”</i></p>
         <p id="p67">The woman speaks in a low voice, so she will not wake the twins. She talks about the early days of Iceland, when humans wore wool from sheep and did not know of any plants to color it with. Their clothes were brown, black or grey. In time, they learned to make yellow and red colors.</p>
         <p id="p68">“But they never found the blue color,” she says. “The small blue flower we use for coloring only grows here with us. That is why they call us the Blue-folks.”</p>
         <p id="p69">“Have you ever been to the human world?” Disa asks quietly.</p>
         <p id="p70">“The human world? What on earth would I be doing there? It’s nothing but rocks and cliffs. How they manage to live there is beyond me.”</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-19 20:34:57 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:34:58 INFO  - Step 18 - Restart app
2023-04-19 20:35:22 INFO  - Step 19 - Open Books
2023-04-19 20:35:22 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:24 INFO  - Step 20 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-04-19 20:35:24 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:24 INFO  - Step 21 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-19 20:35:25 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:25 INFO  - Step 22 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-19 20:35:26 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:35:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:35:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:35:28 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-19 20:35:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:30 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Disa's Battle-1.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788711755600.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">1.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p7">From the top of the crater, where Disa and her father are standing, they can see all the way over to the gigantic entrance to the<i> Black Castles.</i></p>
         <p id="p8">It is in there, among the twisted lava pillars, that Alva, Disa’s twin sister, is kept. Or maybe she is even further away – <i>behind</i> the<i> Black Castles</i>!</p>
         <p id="p9">Disa is going to save Alva using the brimstone-buttercup. But will Alva be frozen, like their father was? And what is going to happen if she does not succeed in saving Alva? Then Disa will be alone forever. But not alone like before, now that she has her father! Disa takes her father’s hand and squeezes it. It feels soft and warm.</p>
         <p id="p10">“We’ll stay here and relax for the rest of the day,” her father says. “We’ve been driving all night, and we need some sleep. As soon as it gets dark, we’ll sneak into the<i> Black Castles. </i>The humans call it the Dimmur Fortress, but it was built by nature. Volcanoes sent fire and melted rocks across the landscape.”</p>
         <p id="p11">“Does anyone live in the<i> Black Castles</i>?” Disa asks.</p>
         <p id="p12">“Yes, although everything is barren and deserted, it is full of life,” Disa’s father says. “Trolls, elves and dwarfs live in the cliffs and the rocks. But strangely enough, there are no nymphs.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line4"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p13">Disa’s father becomes aware of Kamban, who is standing next to them. “You can drive back home as soon as you’re ready!”</p>
         <p id="p14">“I would rather stay here with you guys,” Kamban says.</p>
         <p id="p15">“No. Your parents have no idea where you are,” Asbjorn says. “Besides, the trip to the<i> Black Castles</i> might be dangerous. I would never forgive myself if something were to happen to you.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“But you’ll need the car to get back!” Kamban says eagerly. “Besides, elves don’t need nearly as much sleep as nymphs and humans do.”</p>
         <p id="p17">“You heard what I said,” Asbjorn says sternly.</p>
         <p id="p18">Kamban kicks a rock, and it hits the water at the bottom of the crater with a <i>plop! </i>He looks dissatisfied, but does not say anything else.</p>
         <p id="p19">Then they follow the path back down from the crater, and Disa suddenly realizes how tired and hungry she feels.</p>
         <p id="p20">“We’re lucky,” her father says, as if he has read Disa’s mind. “There are plenty of crowberries and blueberries. Let’s eat as many as we can.”</p>
         <p id="p21">But Disa thinks that crowberries are bitter and dry. Luckily, the blueberries have a richer, sweeter taste. It is the first time she eats berries directly from the bush. At the Children’s Shelter, they always came from a bag in the freezer.</p>
         <p id="p22">Asbjorn has picked ferns and heather, and made them a bed. The sun is high in the sky and it is so warm that Disa takes off her coat.</p>
         <p id="p23">Full, and in a strangely light mood, she lies down between Kamban and her father, and licks the red berry juice off her hands. The heather smells sweet and nice. But there is also another smell, the smell of her father. It is a new smell, but somehow, it feels familiar.</p>
         <p id="p24">Before she falls asleep, she wonders whether Regitze has noticed that she is missing. Maybe she has even noticed that the clown is gone too, and then…</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line5"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p25">Disa wakes up because she is cold. The sun has moved. She is just about to turn around when she catches a glimpse of something white. Then she hears a dry rattle, and spots the tail of an arctic fox disappearing into the grass. A moment later, she is asleep again.</p>
         <p id="p26">The next time she wakes up, it is dark. The sky is overcast. It must be nighttime.</p>
         <p id="p27">“It’s good you’re awake, Disa, my own. It’s time to go,” her father says. “We had better wake Kamban, even though he’s sleeping like a log.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line6"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p28">They find Kamban’s car, which is hidden under a cover and some gravel.</p>
         <p id="p29">“Get home safely, you who needs no sleep. Say hello to your mother for me, and let her know that her son is a good kid,” her father says, and shakes Kamban’s hand.</p>
         <p id="p30">Kamban blushes all the way up to his ears. Then he gets in his car, waves and drives away.</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line7"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p31">When Disa and her father can no longer see Kamban’s car, they start walking towards the entrance to the<i> Black Castles</i>.</p>
         <p id="p32">It is dark. Darker than it is outside. It is probably because of the tall lava pillars. The air feels cold.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Are you hungry?” Her father turns his head and looks at her.</p>
         <p id="p34">They have not eaten anything since the berries this morning. Disa shakes her head.</p>
         <p id="p35">“I’m hungry,” her father says. “We’ll go to the Blue-folks and get some food. Without anything to eat or drink, we won’t get far.”</p>
         <p id="p36">“Who are the Blue-folks?” Disa looks puzzled.</p>
         <p id="p37">“They’re my friends,” her father says. “They don’t live far from here.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line8"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p38">Disa walks right behind her father, and she notices how relaxing it is to walk in someone else’s footsteps. It feels like something she has done before. Later, when they come to a swampy area where they have to jump from mound to mound, she has that same familiar feeling again. Disa measures the distance with her eyes and lands safely on each rocking mound. She moves lightly and naturally, as if her body has its own knowledge.</p>
         <p id="p39">“We’ll be there soon,” her father says when they get out of the swampy area.</p>
         <p id="p40">Dark, pillar-shaped cliffs are lined up around them, like walls with sharp furrows, shining faintly. It is completely quiet.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Where do the Blue-folks live?” Disa asks. “I don’t see any caves around here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">“The Blue-folks don’t live in caves,” her father explains. “They’re considered royalty amongst the elves and they live in castles- the<i> Black Castles</i>.”</p>
         <p id="p43">Disa’s father has stopped at the foot of the tall lava pillars. He presses his hand against one of them.</p>
         <p id="p44">A deep sound comes from within the mountain, and for a long time, nothing happens. Then a door opens. Disa had not noticed it before. An elf sticks out his head.</p>
         <p id="p45">“Asbjorn! Is it really you?” the elf says. “And who is the girl you brought along with you?”</p>
         <p id="p46">Disa is embarrassed. She had almost expected the elf to have a blue face!</p>
         <p id="p47">“This is my daughter Disa,” her father says proudly, putting his arm around her shoulders. “She found the brimstone-buttercup and freed me from the curse. Now we’re looking for Alva, my other daughter. Disa’s sister.”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is an honor to meet someone who has found the brimstone-buttercup,” the elf says, and bows his head in respect. “My name is Naddi. Come on inside and meet my family.”</p>
         <p id="p49">They go into the mountain and further down a narrow hallway. There are torches along the walls. Disa lets her finger slide over the cliff wall. It is smooth as silk. A couple of steps take them upstairs into a large room with a fireplace, where a big fire burns.</p>
         <p id="p50">A woman is sitting by the loom close by, working. When she sees them, she gets up and walks towards them. Her dress is the most beautiful blue color Disa has ever seen. Behind her, a couple of children appear- a girl and a boy, who look like twins.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Welcome,” she says with a smile. “It has been a long time since your last visit, Asbjorn. Who is it you have brought with you?”</p>
         <p id="p52">Asbjorn explains everything to her, and the children stare at Disa. It is clear that they have heard of the powers of the brimstone-buttercup. And now there is a girl right in front of them who has found it herself!</p>
         <p id="p53">“Tell us how you found it!” they all ask at once.</p>
         <p id="p54">“No. Now we have to get you something to eat,” the elf woman says, and disappears with the children into another room. Shortly after, the big, round table in the middle of the room is filled with goodies. There are cold lamb chops and salad with angelica, crowberries and plants that Disa has never tasted before. Afterwards, there is blueberry pie with skýr and wine.</p>
         <p id="p55">“This wine is nice,” Asbjorn says.</p>
         <p id="p56">“Pour some for everyone, grown-ups as well as children,” the elf says cheerfully. “Tonight we will eat, drink and sleep. We are celebrating that Disa has found the brimstone-buttercup and freed you, Asbjorn, from the curse. You have to be fully fed and rested for your journey tomorrow.”</p>
         <p id="p57">The two men get more and more cheery, and then they begin to sing.</p>
         <p id="p58"><i>The mountain will sing</i></p>
         <p id="p59"><i>As the day turns long</i></p>
         <p id="p60"><i>As the wind turns strong</i></p>
         <p id="p61"><i>On the cheek of the girl…</i></p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line9"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p62">The twins have fallen asleep on the bed. The wine has made Disa feel warm and brave.</p>
         <p id="p63">“Can I ask you something?” she says, and looks at the elf woman.</p>
         <p id="p64">“What would you like to know, my dear?”</p>
         <p id="p65">“Why are you called the Blue-folks?”</p>
         <p id="p66"><i>“</i><i>Blue-folks!”</i></p>
         <p id="p67">The woman speaks in a low voice, so she will not wake the twins. She talks about the early days of Iceland, when humans wore wool from sheep and did not know of any plants to color it with. Their clothes were brown, black or grey. In time, they learned to make yellow and red colors.</p>
         <p id="p68">“But they never found the blue color,” she says. “The small blue flower we use for coloring only grows here with us. That is why they call us the Blue-folks.”</p>
         <p id="p69">“Have you ever been to the human world?” Disa asks quietly.</p>
         <p id="p70">“The human world? What on earth would I be doing there? It’s nothing but rocks and cliffs. How they manage to live there is beyond me.”</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-19 20:35:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:30 INFO  - Step 23 - Return to previous screen from epub
2023-04-19 20:35:31 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:31 INFO  - Step 24 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-04-19 20:35:33 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:33 INFO  - Step 25 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-04-19 20:35:34 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:35:34 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-19 20:35:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:35 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Disa's Battle-1.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788711755600.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">1.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p7">From the top of the crater, where Disa and her father are standing, they can see all the way over to the gigantic entrance to the<i> Black Castles.</i></p>
         <p id="p8">It is in there, among the twisted lava pillars, that Alva, Disa’s twin sister, is kept. Or maybe she is even further away – <i>behind</i> the<i> Black Castles</i>!</p>
         <p id="p9">Disa is going to save Alva using the brimstone-buttercup. But will Alva be frozen, like their father was? And what is going to happen if she does not succeed in saving Alva? Then Disa will be alone forever. But not alone like before, now that she has her father! Disa takes her father’s hand and squeezes it. It feels soft and warm.</p>
         <p id="p10">“We’ll stay here and relax for the rest of the day,” her father says. “We’ve been driving all night, and we need some sleep. As soon as it gets dark, we’ll sneak into the<i> Black Castles. </i>The humans call it the Dimmur Fortress, but it was built by nature. Volcanoes sent fire and melted rocks across the landscape.”</p>
         <p id="p11">“Does anyone live in the<i> Black Castles</i>?” Disa asks.</p>
         <p id="p12">“Yes, although everything is barren and deserted, it is full of life,” Disa’s father says. “Trolls, elves and dwarfs live in the cliffs and the rocks. But strangely enough, there are no nymphs.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line4"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p13">Disa’s father becomes aware of Kamban, who is standing next to them. “You can drive back home as soon as you’re ready!”</p>
         <p id="p14">“I would rather stay here with you guys,” Kamban says.</p>
         <p id="p15">“No. Your parents have no idea where you are,” Asbjorn says. “Besides, the trip to the<i> Black Castles</i> might be dangerous. I would never forgive myself if something were to happen to you.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“But you’ll need the car to get back!” Kamban says eagerly. “Besides, elves don’t need nearly as much sleep as nymphs and humans do.”</p>
         <p id="p17">“You heard what I said,” Asbjorn says sternly.</p>
         <p id="p18">Kamban kicks a rock, and it hits the water at the bottom of the crater with a <i>plop! </i>He looks dissatisfied, but does not say anything else.</p>
         <p id="p19">Then they follow the path back down from the crater, and Disa suddenly realizes how tired and hungry she feels.</p>
         <p id="p20">“We’re lucky,” her father says, as if he has read Disa’s mind. “There are plenty of crowberries and blueberries. Let’s eat as many as we can.”</p>
         <p id="p21">But Disa thinks that crowberries are bitter and dry. Luckily, the blueberries have a richer, sweeter taste. It is the first time she eats berries directly from the bush. At the Children’s Shelter, they always came from a bag in the freezer.</p>
         <p id="p22">Asbjorn has picked ferns and heather, and made them a bed. The sun is high in the sky and it is so warm that Disa takes off her coat.</p>
         <p id="p23">Full, and in a strangely light mood, she lies down between Kamban and her father, and licks the red berry juice off her hands. The heather smells sweet and nice. But there is also another smell, the smell of her father. It is a new smell, but somehow, it feels familiar.</p>
         <p id="p24">Before she falls asleep, she wonders whether Regitze has noticed that she is missing. Maybe she has even noticed that the clown is gone too, and then…</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line5"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p25">Disa wakes up because she is cold. The sun has moved. She is just about to turn around when she catches a glimpse of something white. Then she hears a dry rattle, and spots the tail of an arctic fox disappearing into the grass. A moment later, she is asleep again.</p>
         <p id="p26">The next time she wakes up, it is dark. The sky is overcast. It must be nighttime.</p>
         <p id="p27">“It’s good you’re awake, Disa, my own. It’s time to go,” her father says. “We had better wake Kamban, even though he’s sleeping like a log.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line6"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p28">They find Kamban’s car, which is hidden under a cover and some gravel.</p>
         <p id="p29">“Get home safely, you who needs no sleep. Say hello to your mother for me, and let her know that her son is a good kid,” her father says, and shakes Kamban’s hand.</p>
         <p id="p30">Kamban blushes all the way up to his ears. Then he gets in his car, waves and drives away.</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line7"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p31">When Disa and her father can no longer see Kamban’s car, they start walking towards the entrance to the<i> Black Castles</i>.</p>
         <p id="p32">It is dark. Darker than it is outside. It is probably because of the tall lava pillars. The air feels cold.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Are you hungry?” Her father turns his head and looks at her.</p>
         <p id="p34">They have not eaten anything since the berries this morning. Disa shakes her head.</p>
         <p id="p35">“I’m hungry,” her father says. “We’ll go to the Blue-folks and get some food. Without anything to eat or drink, we won’t get far.”</p>
         <p id="p36">“Who are the Blue-folks?” Disa looks puzzled.</p>
         <p id="p37">“They’re my friends,” her father says. “They don’t live far from here.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line8"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p38">Disa walks right behind her father, and she notices how relaxing it is to walk in someone else’s footsteps. It feels like something she has done before. Later, when they come to a swampy area where they have to jump from mound to mound, she has that same familiar feeling again. Disa measures the distance with her eyes and lands safely on each rocking mound. She moves lightly and naturally, as if her body has its own knowledge.</p>
         <p id="p39">“We’ll be there soon,” her father says when they get out of the swampy area.</p>
         <p id="p40">Dark, pillar-shaped cliffs are lined up around them, like walls with sharp furrows, shining faintly. It is completely quiet.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Where do the Blue-folks live?” Disa asks. “I don’t see any caves around here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">“The Blue-folks don’t live in caves,” her father explains. “They’re considered royalty amongst the elves and they live in castles- the<i> Black Castles</i>.”</p>
         <p id="p43">Disa’s father has stopped at the foot of the tall lava pillars. He presses his hand against one of them.</p>
         <p id="p44">A deep sound comes from within the mountain, and for a long time, nothing happens. Then a door opens. Disa had not noticed it before. An elf sticks out his head.</p>
         <p id="p45">“Asbjorn! Is it really you?” the elf says. “And who is the girl you brought along with you?”</p>
         <p id="p46">Disa is embarrassed. She had almost expected the elf to have a blue face!</p>
         <p id="p47">“This is my daughter Disa,” her father says proudly, putting his arm around her shoulders. “She found the brimstone-buttercup and freed me from the curse. Now we’re looking for Alva, my other daughter. Disa’s sister.”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is an honor to meet someone who has found the brimstone-buttercup,” the elf says, and bows his head in respect. “My name is Naddi. Come on inside and meet my family.”</p>
         <p id="p49">They go into the mountain and further down a narrow hallway. There are torches along the walls. Disa lets her finger slide over the cliff wall. It is smooth as silk. A couple of steps take them upstairs into a large room with a fireplace, where a big fire burns.</p>
         <p id="p50">A woman is sitting by the loom close by, working. When she sees them, she gets up and walks towards them. Her dress is the most beautiful blue color Disa has ever seen. Behind her, a couple of children appear- a girl and a boy, who look like twins.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Welcome,” she says with a smile. “It has been a long time since your last visit, Asbjorn. Who is it you have brought with you?”</p>
         <p id="p52">Asbjorn explains everything to her, and the children stare at Disa. It is clear that they have heard of the powers of the brimstone-buttercup. And now there is a girl right in front of them who has found it herself!</p>
         <p id="p53">“Tell us how you found it!” they all ask at once.</p>
         <p id="p54">“No. Now we have to get you something to eat,” the elf woman says, and disappears with the children into another room. Shortly after, the big, round table in the middle of the room is filled with goodies. There are cold lamb chops and salad with angelica, crowberries and plants that Disa has never tasted before. Afterwards, there is blueberry pie with skýr and wine.</p>
         <p id="p55">“This wine is nice,” Asbjorn says.</p>
         <p id="p56">“Pour some for everyone, grown-ups as well as children,” the elf says cheerfully. “Tonight we will eat, drink and sleep. We are celebrating that Disa has found the brimstone-buttercup and freed you, Asbjorn, from the curse. You have to be fully fed and rested for your journey tomorrow.”</p>
         <p id="p57">The two men get more and more cheery, and then they begin to sing.</p>
         <p id="p58"><i>The mountain will sing</i></p>
         <p id="p59"><i>As the day turns long</i></p>
         <p id="p60"><i>As the wind turns strong</i></p>
         <p id="p61"><i>On the cheek of the girl…</i></p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line9"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p62">The twins have fallen asleep on the bed. The wine has made Disa feel warm and brave.</p>
         <p id="p63">“Can I ask you something?” she says, and looks at the elf woman.</p>
         <p id="p64">“What would you like to know, my dear?”</p>
         <p id="p65">“Why are you called the Blue-folks?”</p>
         <p id="p66"><i>“</i><i>Blue-folks!”</i></p>
         <p id="p67">The woman speaks in a low voice, so she will not wake the twins. She talks about the early days of Iceland, when humans wore wool from sheep and did not know of any plants to color it with. Their clothes were brown, black or grey. In time, they learned to make yellow and red colors.</p>
         <p id="p68">“But they never found the blue color,” she says. “The small blue flower we use for coloring only grows here with us. That is why they call us the Blue-folks.”</p>
         <p id="p69">“Have you ever been to the human world?” Disa asks quietly.</p>
         <p id="p70">“The human world? What on earth would I be doing there? It’s nothing but rocks and cliffs. How they manage to live there is beyond me.”</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-19 20:35:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:36 INFO  - Step 26 - Open font settings
2023-04-19 20:35:36 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:37 INFO  - Step 27 - Change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-04-19 20:35:37 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:38 INFO  - Step 28 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-04-19 20:35:38 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-04-19 20:35:38 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-04-19 20:35:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:39 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Disa's Battle-1.</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788711755600.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">1.
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p7">From the top of the crater, where Disa and her father are standing, they can see all the way over to the gigantic entrance to the<i> Black Castles.</i></p>
         <p id="p8">It is in there, among the twisted lava pillars, that Alva, Disa’s twin sister, is kept. Or maybe she is even further away – <i>behind</i> the<i> Black Castles</i>!</p>
         <p id="p9">Disa is going to save Alva using the brimstone-buttercup. But will Alva be frozen, like their father was? And what is going to happen if she does not succeed in saving Alva? Then Disa will be alone forever. But not alone like before, now that she has her father! Disa takes her father’s hand and squeezes it. It feels soft and warm.</p>
         <p id="p10">“We’ll stay here and relax for the rest of the day,” her father says. “We’ve been driving all night, and we need some sleep. As soon as it gets dark, we’ll sneak into the<i> Black Castles. </i>The humans call it the Dimmur Fortress, but it was built by nature. Volcanoes sent fire and melted rocks across the landscape.”</p>
         <p id="p11">“Does anyone live in the<i> Black Castles</i>?” Disa asks.</p>
         <p id="p12">“Yes, although everything is barren and deserted, it is full of life,” Disa’s father says. “Trolls, elves and dwarfs live in the cliffs and the rocks. But strangely enough, there are no nymphs.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line4"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p13">Disa’s father becomes aware of Kamban, who is standing next to them. “You can drive back home as soon as you’re ready!”</p>
         <p id="p14">“I would rather stay here with you guys,” Kamban says.</p>
         <p id="p15">“No. Your parents have no idea where you are,” Asbjorn says. “Besides, the trip to the<i> Black Castles</i> might be dangerous. I would never forgive myself if something were to happen to you.”</p>
         <p id="p16">“But you’ll need the car to get back!” Kamban says eagerly. “Besides, elves don’t need nearly as much sleep as nymphs and humans do.”</p>
         <p id="p17">“You heard what I said,” Asbjorn says sternly.</p>
         <p id="p18">Kamban kicks a rock, and it hits the water at the bottom of the crater with a <i>plop! </i>He looks dissatisfied, but does not say anything else.</p>
         <p id="p19">Then they follow the path back down from the crater, and Disa suddenly realizes how tired and hungry she feels.</p>
         <p id="p20">“We’re lucky,” her father says, as if he has read Disa’s mind. “There are plenty of crowberries and blueberries. Let’s eat as many as we can.”</p>
         <p id="p21">But Disa thinks that crowberries are bitter and dry. Luckily, the blueberries have a richer, sweeter taste. It is the first time she eats berries directly from the bush. At the Children’s Shelter, they always came from a bag in the freezer.</p>
         <p id="p22">Asbjorn has picked ferns and heather, and made them a bed. The sun is high in the sky and it is so warm that Disa takes off her coat.</p>
         <p id="p23">Full, and in a strangely light mood, she lies down between Kamban and her father, and licks the red berry juice off her hands. The heather smells sweet and nice. But there is also another smell, the smell of her father. It is a new smell, but somehow, it feels familiar.</p>
         <p id="p24">Before she falls asleep, she wonders whether Regitze has noticed that she is missing. Maybe she has even noticed that the clown is gone too, and then…</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line5"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p25">Disa wakes up because she is cold. The sun has moved. She is just about to turn around when she catches a glimpse of something white. Then she hears a dry rattle, and spots the tail of an arctic fox disappearing into the grass. A moment later, she is asleep again.</p>
         <p id="p26">The next time she wakes up, it is dark. The sky is overcast. It must be nighttime.</p>
         <p id="p27">“It’s good you’re awake, Disa, my own. It’s time to go,” her father says. “We had better wake Kamban, even though he’s sleeping like a log.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line6"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p28">They find Kamban’s car, which is hidden under a cover and some gravel.</p>
         <p id="p29">“Get home safely, you who needs no sleep. Say hello to your mother for me, and let her know that her son is a good kid,” her father says, and shakes Kamban’s hand.</p>
         <p id="p30">Kamban blushes all the way up to his ears. Then he gets in his car, waves and drives away.</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line7"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p31">When Disa and her father can no longer see Kamban’s car, they start walking towards the entrance to the<i> Black Castles</i>.</p>
         <p id="p32">It is dark. Darker than it is outside. It is probably because of the tall lava pillars. The air feels cold.</p>
         <p id="p33">“Are you hungry?” Her father turns his head and looks at her.</p>
         <p id="p34">They have not eaten anything since the berries this morning. Disa shakes her head.</p>
         <p id="p35">“I’m hungry,” her father says. “We’ll go to the Blue-folks and get some food. Without anything to eat or drink, we won’t get far.”</p>
         <p id="p36">“Who are the Blue-folks?” Disa looks puzzled.</p>
         <p id="p37">“They’re my friends,” her father says. “They don’t live far from here.”</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line8"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p38">Disa walks right behind her father, and she notices how relaxing it is to walk in someone else’s footsteps. It feels like something she has done before. Later, when they come to a swampy area where they have to jump from mound to mound, she has that same familiar feeling again. Disa measures the distance with her eyes and lands safely on each rocking mound. She moves lightly and naturally, as if her body has its own knowledge.</p>
         <p id="p39">“We’ll be there soon,” her father says when they get out of the swampy area.</p>
         <p id="p40">Dark, pillar-shaped cliffs are lined up around them, like walls with sharp furrows, shining faintly. It is completely quiet.</p>
         <p id="p41">“Where do the Blue-folks live?” Disa asks. “I don’t see any caves around here.”</p>
         <p id="p42">“The Blue-folks don’t live in caves,” her father explains. “They’re considered royalty amongst the elves and they live in castles- the<i> Black Castles</i>.”</p>
         <p id="p43">Disa’s father has stopped at the foot of the tall lava pillars. He presses his hand against one of them.</p>
         <p id="p44">A deep sound comes from within the mountain, and for a long time, nothing happens. Then a door opens. Disa had not noticed it before. An elf sticks out his head.</p>
         <p id="p45">“Asbjorn! Is it really you?” the elf says. “And who is the girl you brought along with you?”</p>
         <p id="p46">Disa is embarrassed. She had almost expected the elf to have a blue face!</p>
         <p id="p47">“This is my daughter Disa,” her father says proudly, putting his arm around her shoulders. “She found the brimstone-buttercup and freed me from the curse. Now we’re looking for Alva, my other daughter. Disa’s sister.”</p>
         <p id="p48">“It is an honor to meet someone who has found the brimstone-buttercup,” the elf says, and bows his head in respect. “My name is Naddi. Come on inside and meet my family.”</p>
         <p id="p49">They go into the mountain and further down a narrow hallway. There are torches along the walls. Disa lets her finger slide over the cliff wall. It is smooth as silk. A couple of steps take them upstairs into a large room with a fireplace, where a big fire burns.</p>
         <p id="p50">A woman is sitting by the loom close by, working. When she sees them, she gets up and walks towards them. Her dress is the most beautiful blue color Disa has ever seen. Behind her, a couple of children appear- a girl and a boy, who look like twins.</p>
         <p id="p51">“Welcome,” she says with a smile. “It has been a long time since your last visit, Asbjorn. Who is it you have brought with you?”</p>
         <p id="p52">Asbjorn explains everything to her, and the children stare at Disa. It is clear that they have heard of the powers of the brimstone-buttercup. And now there is a girl right in front of them who has found it herself!</p>
         <p id="p53">“Tell us how you found it!” they all ask at once.</p>
         <p id="p54">“No. Now we have to get you something to eat,” the elf woman says, and disappears with the children into another room. Shortly after, the big, round table in the middle of the room is filled with goodies. There are cold lamb chops and salad with angelica, crowberries and plants that Disa has never tasted before. Afterwards, there is blueberry pie with skýr and wine.</p>
         <p id="p55">“This wine is nice,” Asbjorn says.</p>
         <p id="p56">“Pour some for everyone, grown-ups as well as children,” the elf says cheerfully. “Tonight we will eat, drink and sleep. We are celebrating that Disa has found the brimstone-buttercup and freed you, Asbjorn, from the curse. You have to be fully fed and rested for your journey tomorrow.”</p>
         <p id="p57">The two men get more and more cheery, and then they begin to sing.</p>
         <p id="p58"><i>The mountain will sing</i></p>
         <p id="p59"><i>As the day turns long</i></p>
         <p id="p60"><i>As the wind turns strong</i></p>
         <p id="p61"><i>On the cheek of the girl…</i></p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line9"> 
   </p>
         <p id="p62">The twins have fallen asleep on the bed. The wine has made Disa feel warm and brave.</p>
         <p id="p63">“Can I ask you something?” she says, and looks at the elf woman.</p>
         <p id="p64">“What would you like to know, my dear?”</p>
         <p id="p65">“Why are you called the Blue-folks?”</p>
         <p id="p66"><i>“</i><i>Blue-folks!”</i></p>
         <p id="p67">The woman speaks in a low voice, so she will not wake the twins. She talks about the early days of Iceland, when humans wore wool from sheep and did not know of any plants to color it with. Their clothes were brown, black or grey. In time, they learned to make yellow and red colors.</p>
         <p id="p68">“But they never found the blue color,” she says. “The small blue flower we use for coloring only grows here with us. That is why they call us the Blue-folks.”</p>
         <p id="p69">“Have you ever been to the human world?” Disa asks quietly.</p>
         <p id="p70">“The human world? What on earth would I be doing there? It’s nothing but rocks and cliffs. How they manage to live there is beyond me.”</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-04-19 20:35:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-04-19 20:35:40 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-04-19 20:35:41 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-04-19 20:35:42 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:45 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:47 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:35:48 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:35:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:35:49 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-04-19 20:36:10 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-04-19 20:36:10 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-04-19 20:36:10 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@448e88f6
