2023-03-15 00:44:18 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-03-15 00:44:18 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-15 00:44:48 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-15 00:44:48 INFO  - Session id - 72e9a048dd09d28f1d7fd76db2ca3291b4cab9dd
2023-03-15 00:44:48 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-15 00:44:48 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:51 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:51 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:44:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-15 00:44:56 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:56 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-15 00:44:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:44:58 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:01 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-15 00:45:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:02 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:04 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:05 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000305
2023-03-15 00:45:05 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-15 00:45:06 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-03-15 00:45:06 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-03-15 00:45:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:45:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000305'
2023-03-15 00:45:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:45:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-15 00:45:09 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:45:16 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:45:16 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-15 00:45:37 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:45:37 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-15 00:45:37 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:00 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-15 00:46:20 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:21 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-15 00:46:21 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-15 00:46:21 INFO  - randomBookName: Transient Desires
2023-03-15 00:46:22 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-15 00:46:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Transient Desires'
2023-03-15 00:46:25 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-15 00:46:28 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-15 00:46:31 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:46:31 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:37 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-15 00:46:37 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:46:38 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:38 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:46:39 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:39 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-15 00:46:39 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-15 00:46:54 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-15 00:46:55 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:55 INFO  - Step 12 - I change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-03-15 00:46:55 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:46:56 INFO  - Step 13 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:46:57 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:46:57 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:46:58 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:46:58 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>9780802158192-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:863b6a05-3b1f-41cf-ba37-8c868b16018b" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="x9780802158192-6" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-7">1</p>
			<p class="TX1">Brunetti slept late. At about nine, he turned his head towards the right and opened one eye, saw the time, and closed his eye again. He did not move for some time, and when he next opened his eye, he saw that it was half past nine. He reached out his left arm in the hope that he would find Paola beside him, but he found only the indentation of her former presence, long since gone cold.</p>
			<p class="TX">He levered himself on to his side and then his back, rested for a moment after achieving this, and opened his eyes. He studied the ceiling, glanced at the far corner on the right and saw the mark above the window where water had leaked in some months before, creating a brown patch that looked like an octopus, a rather small one. Like an octopus, this stain changed colour with the light, sometimes changing shape, as well, although there were always only seven legs.</p>
			<p class="TX">He had promised Paola he would get up on the ladder and paint it over, but he was always in a hurry, or it was night-time and he didn’t want to get on the ladder, or he didn’t have his shoes on and didn’t want to risk climbing the ladder wearing only socks. This morning the stain annoyed him, and he decided he would ask the man who did odd jobs for them to come and paint it over and have done with it.</p>
			<p class="TX">Or his son could tear himself loose from his computer or from talking to his girlfriend on the phone and get the ladder and paint it and help his parents for a change. Detecting the distinct note of resentment and self-pity in his thoughts, Brunetti pushed them aside and considered some of the events of last night’s dinner, among which were three glasses of grappa that were most likely the cause of his current condition.</p>
			<p class="TX">As was their custom once a year, last evening he and some companions from <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">liceo</em> had met for dinner in a restaurant at the beginning of Riva del Vin, where the obliging owner always put them in the same corner by the window on to the Canal Grande.</p>
			<p class="TX">As the years passed, their number had shrunk from more than thirty to just ten, reduced for the usual reasons: geography, employment, and sickness. Some had tired of the inconveniences of the city and had moved away; others had taken better jobs in other parts of Italy or Europe, and two had died.</p>
			<p class="TX">This year, as well as Brunetti, the other three original organizers of the dinner had attended. The first was Luca Ippodrino, who had turned his father’s trattoria into a world-famous restaur­ant by following three relatively simple rules: he served the same food his mother had served for thirty years to the men who unloaded the boats at Rialto; it was now served on porcelain plates and in far smaller and delicately decorated portions; the prices had been inflated almost beyond bearing. The waiting list for a table – especially during the Biennale and the Film Festival – started filling up months in advance.</p>
			<p class="TX">The second, Franca Righi, Brunetti’s first girlfriend, had gone on to study physics in Rome and now taught at the same university where she had studied. It was she who had towed Brunetti through their biology and physics classes and now delighted in telling him each time one of the laws they had studied turned out to be false and had to be replaced.</p>
			<p class="TX">The last was a newly divorced Matteo Lunghi, a gynaecologist, whose wife had left him for a much younger man, and who had had to be encouraged through the dinner by his friends.</p>
			<p class="TX">The remaining six were successful – or content – to varying degrees or at least behaved that way when in the company of people who had known them most of their lives. Much of that ease of communication, Brunetti believed, came of their having a common store of cultural and historical references as well as their generation’s unspoken and unconsidered ethical standards.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before allowing himself to consider what those might be, Brunetti pushed aside the covers and went down to the bathroom to have a shower.</p>
			<p class="TX">The hot water restored his spirits, as did the length of time – his children not there to protest about the waste of water – he spent under it. He went back to the bedroom, draped the towel over the back of a chair, and started to get dressed. He pulled out the trousers of a suit he hadn’t worn since the winter, dark grey cashmere and wool and bought for almost nothing when the men’s clothing store in Campo San Luca had closed two years before. Strange, he thought, as he pushed the button through the buttonhole: they had seemed to fit him better when he had bought the suit. Perhaps the dry cleaning had tightened them somehow; surely they would loosen up as the day wore on and he moved around wearing them.</p>
			<p class="TX">He sat on the chair, pulled on a pair of dark socks and black shoes he’d bought in Milano years before and that had moulded themselves to his feet as time passed and that never failed to convey a thrill of sensual delight as he slipped them on.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before he put on his jacket, he considered wearing a vest but, remembering how warm it had been the day before, decided it was unnecessary: the good weather of late autumn could be counted on for another day. In the kitchen, he looked on the table for a note from Paola but found nothing. It was Monday, so she would not be home before late afternoon, spending the time in her office at the university, ostensibly to speak to the doctoral candidates whose dissertations she was overseeing. She delighted in the fact that they seldom came to speak to her, leaving her quite happy to sit undisturbed in her office, preparing classes or reading. Thus the life of the scholar, Brunetti reflected.</p>
			<p class="TX">He left the house and started for the Questura, but turned immediately into Rizzardini for a coffee and a brioche, and then another coffee and a glass of mineral water. Braced by caffeine and sugar, Brunetti turned towards Rialto and the business of passing through the centre of the city at half past ten in the morning, just as the people who had done their grocery shopping at the market were beginning to be replaced by the tourists in search of their first <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">ombra</em> or prosecco, all bent on having what they had been told was a real Venetian experience.</p>
			<p class="TX">Twenty minutes later, he turned right on to the <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">riva</em> that led to the Questura and, looking across the canal, saw the cleaned and restored façade of the church of San Lorenzo, no longer a church but a gallery of some sort, dedicated, he had been told, to the salvation of the seas. The decades-old billboard giving the year of the beginning of the ever-unconcluded restoration had been removed, as had the wooden condominium built by local residents for stray cats that had stood there for as long as Brunetti could remember.</p>
			<p class="TX">As he arrived outside the Questura, he saw his superior, Vice-Questore Giuseppe Patta, at the bottom of the staircase at the far end of the entrance hall. Instinctively, Brunetti pulled his <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">telefonino</em> from the pocket of his jacket and bent his head over it, nodding to the officer who opened the glass door for him but not moving into the building. He stopped and poked angrily at the front of his phone, then turned to the officer and said, making no attempt to disguise his irritation, ‘Do you have any connection down here, Graziano?’</p>
			<p class="TX">The officer on guard duty, aware that Brunetti was arriving for work two hours late and that the Vice-Questore did not view the Commissario with a benevolent eye, said, ‘It’s been going in and out all morning, Signore. Did you manage to connect by going out there?’ He nodded towards the space in front of the Questura.</p>
			<p class="TX">Brunetti shook his head, saying, ‘It’s no better out there. Makes me crazy that there’s . . .’ but stopped when he saw his superior walking towards him. ‘Good morning, Vice-Questore,’ he said, then added in a helpful voice, holding up his phone, ‘Don’t even bother going outside to try, Dottore. There’s no hope. Nothing’s working.’</p>
			<p class="TX">That said, Brunetti slipped the phone back into his pocket and pointed, quite unnecessarily, towards the stairs. ‘I’m going to check the phone on my desk again and see if it’s working yet.’</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta, entirely confused, asked, ‘What’s wrong, Brunetti?’ His tone, Brunetti thought, was remarkably similar to the one he had himself used, when the kids were younger and told him they had no homework to do that evening.</p>
			<p class="TX">Like a prosecutor holding up the plastic bag with the bloodstained knife inside to show to the press photographer, he pulled out his phone again and showed it to his superior. ‘There’s no connection.’</p>
			<p class="TX">From the corner of his eye, he saw Graziano nod in agreement, quite as if he had watched Brunetti’s failure to make a call.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned from Brunetti and asked the officer, ‘Where’s Foa?’</p>
			<p class="TX">‘He should be here in three minutes, Vice-Questore,’ Graziano assured him, looking at his watch and somehow managing to seem taller when he spoke to their superior. As if summoned by the Vice-Questore’s desire, the police launch turned into the canal and passed quickly in front of the church, under the bridge, and slowed to a stop at the dock just beyond where the three men stood.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned away silently from the two men and walked towards the boat, its motor reduced to a purr. Foa tossed a rope around the nearest stanchion and jumped down to the pavement, saluted the Vice-Questore, stepped back and extended his arm, as if to clear a group of pesky reporters from the space between them. Patta viewed any motion made within a metre of his person as an attempt to help him and placed a hand upon Foa’s forearm to steady himself as he stepped up on to the boat.</p>
			<p class="TX">Foa smiled to his two colleagues, flipped the rope free, leaped over the gunwale and landed in front of the wheel. The engine gave a roar, and Foa spun the launch in a tight U and headed back the way he’d come.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:46:58 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:46:58 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-15 00:47:24 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-15 00:47:24 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:25 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-15 00:47:25 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:25 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:47:26 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:27 INFO  - Step 18 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:47:27 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:47:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:47:29 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:47:29 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:47:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:30 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>9780802158192-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:863b6a05-3b1f-41cf-ba37-8c868b16018b" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="x9780802158192-6" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-7">1</p>
			<p class="TX1">Brunetti slept late. At about nine, he turned his head towards the right and opened one eye, saw the time, and closed his eye again. He did not move for some time, and when he next opened his eye, he saw that it was half past nine. He reached out his left arm in the hope that he would find Paola beside him, but he found only the indentation of her former presence, long since gone cold.</p>
			<p class="TX">He levered himself on to his side and then his back, rested for a moment after achieving this, and opened his eyes. He studied the ceiling, glanced at the far corner on the right and saw the mark above the window where water had leaked in some months before, creating a brown patch that looked like an octopus, a rather small one. Like an octopus, this stain changed colour with the light, sometimes changing shape, as well, although there were always only seven legs.</p>
			<p class="TX">He had promised Paola he would get up on the ladder and paint it over, but he was always in a hurry, or it was night-time and he didn’t want to get on the ladder, or he didn’t have his shoes on and didn’t want to risk climbing the ladder wearing only socks. This morning the stain annoyed him, and he decided he would ask the man who did odd jobs for them to come and paint it over and have done with it.</p>
			<p class="TX">Or his son could tear himself loose from his computer or from talking to his girlfriend on the phone and get the ladder and paint it and help his parents for a change. Detecting the distinct note of resentment and self-pity in his thoughts, Brunetti pushed them aside and considered some of the events of last night’s dinner, among which were three glasses of grappa that were most likely the cause of his current condition.</p>
			<p class="TX">As was their custom once a year, last evening he and some companions from <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">liceo</em> had met for dinner in a restaurant at the beginning of Riva del Vin, where the obliging owner always put them in the same corner by the window on to the Canal Grande.</p>
			<p class="TX">As the years passed, their number had shrunk from more than thirty to just ten, reduced for the usual reasons: geography, employment, and sickness. Some had tired of the inconveniences of the city and had moved away; others had taken better jobs in other parts of Italy or Europe, and two had died.</p>
			<p class="TX">This year, as well as Brunetti, the other three original organizers of the dinner had attended. The first was Luca Ippodrino, who had turned his father’s trattoria into a world-famous restaur­ant by following three relatively simple rules: he served the same food his mother had served for thirty years to the men who unloaded the boats at Rialto; it was now served on porcelain plates and in far smaller and delicately decorated portions; the prices had been inflated almost beyond bearing. The waiting list for a table – especially during the Biennale and the Film Festival – started filling up months in advance.</p>
			<p class="TX">The second, Franca Righi, Brunetti’s first girlfriend, had gone on to study physics in Rome and now taught at the same university where she had studied. It was she who had towed Brunetti through their biology and physics classes and now delighted in telling him each time one of the laws they had studied turned out to be false and had to be replaced.</p>
			<p class="TX">The last was a newly divorced Matteo Lunghi, a gynaecologist, whose wife had left him for a much younger man, and who had had to be encouraged through the dinner by his friends.</p>
			<p class="TX">The remaining six were successful – or content – to varying degrees or at least behaved that way when in the company of people who had known them most of their lives. Much of that ease of communication, Brunetti believed, came of their having a common store of cultural and historical references as well as their generation’s unspoken and unconsidered ethical standards.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before allowing himself to consider what those might be, Brunetti pushed aside the covers and went down to the bathroom to have a shower.</p>
			<p class="TX">The hot water restored his spirits, as did the length of time – his children not there to protest about the waste of water – he spent under it. He went back to the bedroom, draped the towel over the back of a chair, and started to get dressed. He pulled out the trousers of a suit he hadn’t worn since the winter, dark grey cashmere and wool and bought for almost nothing when the men’s clothing store in Campo San Luca had closed two years before. Strange, he thought, as he pushed the button through the buttonhole: they had seemed to fit him better when he had bought the suit. Perhaps the dry cleaning had tightened them somehow; surely they would loosen up as the day wore on and he moved around wearing them.</p>
			<p class="TX">He sat on the chair, pulled on a pair of dark socks and black shoes he’d bought in Milano years before and that had moulded themselves to his feet as time passed and that never failed to convey a thrill of sensual delight as he slipped them on.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before he put on his jacket, he considered wearing a vest but, remembering how warm it had been the day before, decided it was unnecessary: the good weather of late autumn could be counted on for another day. In the kitchen, he looked on the table for a note from Paola but found nothing. It was Monday, so she would not be home before late afternoon, spending the time in her office at the university, ostensibly to speak to the doctoral candidates whose dissertations she was overseeing. She delighted in the fact that they seldom came to speak to her, leaving her quite happy to sit undisturbed in her office, preparing classes or reading. Thus the life of the scholar, Brunetti reflected.</p>
			<p class="TX">He left the house and started for the Questura, but turned immediately into Rizzardini for a coffee and a brioche, and then another coffee and a glass of mineral water. Braced by caffeine and sugar, Brunetti turned towards Rialto and the business of passing through the centre of the city at half past ten in the morning, just as the people who had done their grocery shopping at the market were beginning to be replaced by the tourists in search of their first <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">ombra</em> or prosecco, all bent on having what they had been told was a real Venetian experience.</p>
			<p class="TX">Twenty minutes later, he turned right on to the <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">riva</em> that led to the Questura and, looking across the canal, saw the cleaned and restored façade of the church of San Lorenzo, no longer a church but a gallery of some sort, dedicated, he had been told, to the salvation of the seas. The decades-old billboard giving the year of the beginning of the ever-unconcluded restoration had been removed, as had the wooden condominium built by local residents for stray cats that had stood there for as long as Brunetti could remember.</p>
			<p class="TX">As he arrived outside the Questura, he saw his superior, Vice-Questore Giuseppe Patta, at the bottom of the staircase at the far end of the entrance hall. Instinctively, Brunetti pulled his <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">telefonino</em> from the pocket of his jacket and bent his head over it, nodding to the officer who opened the glass door for him but not moving into the building. He stopped and poked angrily at the front of his phone, then turned to the officer and said, making no attempt to disguise his irritation, ‘Do you have any connection down here, Graziano?’</p>
			<p class="TX">The officer on guard duty, aware that Brunetti was arriving for work two hours late and that the Vice-Questore did not view the Commissario with a benevolent eye, said, ‘It’s been going in and out all morning, Signore. Did you manage to connect by going out there?’ He nodded towards the space in front of the Questura.</p>
			<p class="TX">Brunetti shook his head, saying, ‘It’s no better out there. Makes me crazy that there’s . . .’ but stopped when he saw his superior walking towards him. ‘Good morning, Vice-Questore,’ he said, then added in a helpful voice, holding up his phone, ‘Don’t even bother going outside to try, Dottore. There’s no hope. Nothing’s working.’</p>
			<p class="TX">That said, Brunetti slipped the phone back into his pocket and pointed, quite unnecessarily, towards the stairs. ‘I’m going to check the phone on my desk again and see if it’s working yet.’</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta, entirely confused, asked, ‘What’s wrong, Brunetti?’ His tone, Brunetti thought, was remarkably similar to the one he had himself used, when the kids were younger and told him they had no homework to do that evening.</p>
			<p class="TX">Like a prosecutor holding up the plastic bag with the bloodstained knife inside to show to the press photographer, he pulled out his phone again and showed it to his superior. ‘There’s no connection.’</p>
			<p class="TX">From the corner of his eye, he saw Graziano nod in agreement, quite as if he had watched Brunetti’s failure to make a call.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned from Brunetti and asked the officer, ‘Where’s Foa?’</p>
			<p class="TX">‘He should be here in three minutes, Vice-Questore,’ Graziano assured him, looking at his watch and somehow managing to seem taller when he spoke to their superior. As if summoned by the Vice-Questore’s desire, the police launch turned into the canal and passed quickly in front of the church, under the bridge, and slowed to a stop at the dock just beyond where the three men stood.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned away silently from the two men and walked towards the boat, its motor reduced to a purr. Foa tossed a rope around the nearest stanchion and jumped down to the pavement, saluted the Vice-Questore, stepped back and extended his arm, as if to clear a group of pesky reporters from the space between them. Patta viewed any motion made within a metre of his person as an attempt to help him and placed a hand upon Foa’s forearm to steady himself as he stepped up on to the boat.</p>
			<p class="TX">Foa smiled to his two colleagues, flipped the rope free, leaped over the gunwale and landed in front of the wheel. The engine gave a roar, and Foa spun the launch in a tight U and headed back the way he’d come.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:47:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:31 INFO  - Step 19 - I return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-15 00:47:31 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:32 INFO  - Step 20 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:47:33 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:33 INFO  - Step 21 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:47:34 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:47:34 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:47:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:35 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>9780802158192-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:863b6a05-3b1f-41cf-ba37-8c868b16018b" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="x9780802158192-6" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-7">1</p>
			<p class="TX1">Brunetti slept late. At about nine, he turned his head towards the right and opened one eye, saw the time, and closed his eye again. He did not move for some time, and when he next opened his eye, he saw that it was half past nine. He reached out his left arm in the hope that he would find Paola beside him, but he found only the indentation of her former presence, long since gone cold.</p>
			<p class="TX">He levered himself on to his side and then his back, rested for a moment after achieving this, and opened his eyes. He studied the ceiling, glanced at the far corner on the right and saw the mark above the window where water had leaked in some months before, creating a brown patch that looked like an octopus, a rather small one. Like an octopus, this stain changed colour with the light, sometimes changing shape, as well, although there were always only seven legs.</p>
			<p class="TX">He had promised Paola he would get up on the ladder and paint it over, but he was always in a hurry, or it was night-time and he didn’t want to get on the ladder, or he didn’t have his shoes on and didn’t want to risk climbing the ladder wearing only socks. This morning the stain annoyed him, and he decided he would ask the man who did odd jobs for them to come and paint it over and have done with it.</p>
			<p class="TX">Or his son could tear himself loose from his computer or from talking to his girlfriend on the phone and get the ladder and paint it and help his parents for a change. Detecting the distinct note of resentment and self-pity in his thoughts, Brunetti pushed them aside and considered some of the events of last night’s dinner, among which were three glasses of grappa that were most likely the cause of his current condition.</p>
			<p class="TX">As was their custom once a year, last evening he and some companions from <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">liceo</em> had met for dinner in a restaurant at the beginning of Riva del Vin, where the obliging owner always put them in the same corner by the window on to the Canal Grande.</p>
			<p class="TX">As the years passed, their number had shrunk from more than thirty to just ten, reduced for the usual reasons: geography, employment, and sickness. Some had tired of the inconveniences of the city and had moved away; others had taken better jobs in other parts of Italy or Europe, and two had died.</p>
			<p class="TX">This year, as well as Brunetti, the other three original organizers of the dinner had attended. The first was Luca Ippodrino, who had turned his father’s trattoria into a world-famous restaur­ant by following three relatively simple rules: he served the same food his mother had served for thirty years to the men who unloaded the boats at Rialto; it was now served on porcelain plates and in far smaller and delicately decorated portions; the prices had been inflated almost beyond bearing. The waiting list for a table – especially during the Biennale and the Film Festival – started filling up months in advance.</p>
			<p class="TX">The second, Franca Righi, Brunetti’s first girlfriend, had gone on to study physics in Rome and now taught at the same university where she had studied. It was she who had towed Brunetti through their biology and physics classes and now delighted in telling him each time one of the laws they had studied turned out to be false and had to be replaced.</p>
			<p class="TX">The last was a newly divorced Matteo Lunghi, a gynaecologist, whose wife had left him for a much younger man, and who had had to be encouraged through the dinner by his friends.</p>
			<p class="TX">The remaining six were successful – or content – to varying degrees or at least behaved that way when in the company of people who had known them most of their lives. Much of that ease of communication, Brunetti believed, came of their having a common store of cultural and historical references as well as their generation’s unspoken and unconsidered ethical standards.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before allowing himself to consider what those might be, Brunetti pushed aside the covers and went down to the bathroom to have a shower.</p>
			<p class="TX">The hot water restored his spirits, as did the length of time – his children not there to protest about the waste of water – he spent under it. He went back to the bedroom, draped the towel over the back of a chair, and started to get dressed. He pulled out the trousers of a suit he hadn’t worn since the winter, dark grey cashmere and wool and bought for almost nothing when the men’s clothing store in Campo San Luca had closed two years before. Strange, he thought, as he pushed the button through the buttonhole: they had seemed to fit him better when he had bought the suit. Perhaps the dry cleaning had tightened them somehow; surely they would loosen up as the day wore on and he moved around wearing them.</p>
			<p class="TX">He sat on the chair, pulled on a pair of dark socks and black shoes he’d bought in Milano years before and that had moulded themselves to his feet as time passed and that never failed to convey a thrill of sensual delight as he slipped them on.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before he put on his jacket, he considered wearing a vest but, remembering how warm it had been the day before, decided it was unnecessary: the good weather of late autumn could be counted on for another day. In the kitchen, he looked on the table for a note from Paola but found nothing. It was Monday, so she would not be home before late afternoon, spending the time in her office at the university, ostensibly to speak to the doctoral candidates whose dissertations she was overseeing. She delighted in the fact that they seldom came to speak to her, leaving her quite happy to sit undisturbed in her office, preparing classes or reading. Thus the life of the scholar, Brunetti reflected.</p>
			<p class="TX">He left the house and started for the Questura, but turned immediately into Rizzardini for a coffee and a brioche, and then another coffee and a glass of mineral water. Braced by caffeine and sugar, Brunetti turned towards Rialto and the business of passing through the centre of the city at half past ten in the morning, just as the people who had done their grocery shopping at the market were beginning to be replaced by the tourists in search of their first <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">ombra</em> or prosecco, all bent on having what they had been told was a real Venetian experience.</p>
			<p class="TX">Twenty minutes later, he turned right on to the <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">riva</em> that led to the Questura and, looking across the canal, saw the cleaned and restored façade of the church of San Lorenzo, no longer a church but a gallery of some sort, dedicated, he had been told, to the salvation of the seas. The decades-old billboard giving the year of the beginning of the ever-unconcluded restoration had been removed, as had the wooden condominium built by local residents for stray cats that had stood there for as long as Brunetti could remember.</p>
			<p class="TX">As he arrived outside the Questura, he saw his superior, Vice-Questore Giuseppe Patta, at the bottom of the staircase at the far end of the entrance hall. Instinctively, Brunetti pulled his <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">telefonino</em> from the pocket of his jacket and bent his head over it, nodding to the officer who opened the glass door for him but not moving into the building. He stopped and poked angrily at the front of his phone, then turned to the officer and said, making no attempt to disguise his irritation, ‘Do you have any connection down here, Graziano?’</p>
			<p class="TX">The officer on guard duty, aware that Brunetti was arriving for work two hours late and that the Vice-Questore did not view the Commissario with a benevolent eye, said, ‘It’s been going in and out all morning, Signore. Did you manage to connect by going out there?’ He nodded towards the space in front of the Questura.</p>
			<p class="TX">Brunetti shook his head, saying, ‘It’s no better out there. Makes me crazy that there’s . . .’ but stopped when he saw his superior walking towards him. ‘Good morning, Vice-Questore,’ he said, then added in a helpful voice, holding up his phone, ‘Don’t even bother going outside to try, Dottore. There’s no hope. Nothing’s working.’</p>
			<p class="TX">That said, Brunetti slipped the phone back into his pocket and pointed, quite unnecessarily, towards the stairs. ‘I’m going to check the phone on my desk again and see if it’s working yet.’</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta, entirely confused, asked, ‘What’s wrong, Brunetti?’ His tone, Brunetti thought, was remarkably similar to the one he had himself used, when the kids were younger and told him they had no homework to do that evening.</p>
			<p class="TX">Like a prosecutor holding up the plastic bag with the bloodstained knife inside to show to the press photographer, he pulled out his phone again and showed it to his superior. ‘There’s no connection.’</p>
			<p class="TX">From the corner of his eye, he saw Graziano nod in agreement, quite as if he had watched Brunetti’s failure to make a call.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned from Brunetti and asked the officer, ‘Where’s Foa?’</p>
			<p class="TX">‘He should be here in three minutes, Vice-Questore,’ Graziano assured him, looking at his watch and somehow managing to seem taller when he spoke to their superior. As if summoned by the Vice-Questore’s desire, the police launch turned into the canal and passed quickly in front of the church, under the bridge, and slowed to a stop at the dock just beyond where the three men stood.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned away silently from the two men and walked towards the boat, its motor reduced to a purr. Foa tossed a rope around the nearest stanchion and jumped down to the pavement, saluted the Vice-Questore, stepped back and extended his arm, as if to clear a group of pesky reporters from the space between them. Patta viewed any motion made within a metre of his person as an attempt to help him and placed a hand upon Foa’s forearm to steady himself as he stepped up on to the boat.</p>
			<p class="TX">Foa smiled to his two colleagues, flipped the rope free, leaped over the gunwale and landed in front of the wheel. The engine gave a roar, and Foa spun the launch in a tight U and headed back the way he’d come.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:47:35 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:36 INFO  - Step 22 - I open font settings
2023-03-15 00:47:37 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:37 INFO  - Step 23 - I change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-03-15 00:47:37 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:38 INFO  - Step 24 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-03-15 00:47:38 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:47:38 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:47:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:39 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>9780802158192-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:863b6a05-3b1f-41cf-ba37-8c868b16018b" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="x9780802158192-6" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-7">1</p>
			<p class="TX1">Brunetti slept late. At about nine, he turned his head towards the right and opened one eye, saw the time, and closed his eye again. He did not move for some time, and when he next opened his eye, he saw that it was half past nine. He reached out his left arm in the hope that he would find Paola beside him, but he found only the indentation of her former presence, long since gone cold.</p>
			<p class="TX">He levered himself on to his side and then his back, rested for a moment after achieving this, and opened his eyes. He studied the ceiling, glanced at the far corner on the right and saw the mark above the window where water had leaked in some months before, creating a brown patch that looked like an octopus, a rather small one. Like an octopus, this stain changed colour with the light, sometimes changing shape, as well, although there were always only seven legs.</p>
			<p class="TX">He had promised Paola he would get up on the ladder and paint it over, but he was always in a hurry, or it was night-time and he didn’t want to get on the ladder, or he didn’t have his shoes on and didn’t want to risk climbing the ladder wearing only socks. This morning the stain annoyed him, and he decided he would ask the man who did odd jobs for them to come and paint it over and have done with it.</p>
			<p class="TX">Or his son could tear himself loose from his computer or from talking to his girlfriend on the phone and get the ladder and paint it and help his parents for a change. Detecting the distinct note of resentment and self-pity in his thoughts, Brunetti pushed them aside and considered some of the events of last night’s dinner, among which were three glasses of grappa that were most likely the cause of his current condition.</p>
			<p class="TX">As was their custom once a year, last evening he and some companions from <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">liceo</em> had met for dinner in a restaurant at the beginning of Riva del Vin, where the obliging owner always put them in the same corner by the window on to the Canal Grande.</p>
			<p class="TX">As the years passed, their number had shrunk from more than thirty to just ten, reduced for the usual reasons: geography, employment, and sickness. Some had tired of the inconveniences of the city and had moved away; others had taken better jobs in other parts of Italy or Europe, and two had died.</p>
			<p class="TX">This year, as well as Brunetti, the other three original organizers of the dinner had attended. The first was Luca Ippodrino, who had turned his father’s trattoria into a world-famous restaur­ant by following three relatively simple rules: he served the same food his mother had served for thirty years to the men who unloaded the boats at Rialto; it was now served on porcelain plates and in far smaller and delicately decorated portions; the prices had been inflated almost beyond bearing. The waiting list for a table – especially during the Biennale and the Film Festival – started filling up months in advance.</p>
			<p class="TX">The second, Franca Righi, Brunetti’s first girlfriend, had gone on to study physics in Rome and now taught at the same university where she had studied. It was she who had towed Brunetti through their biology and physics classes and now delighted in telling him each time one of the laws they had studied turned out to be false and had to be replaced.</p>
			<p class="TX">The last was a newly divorced Matteo Lunghi, a gynaecologist, whose wife had left him for a much younger man, and who had had to be encouraged through the dinner by his friends.</p>
			<p class="TX">The remaining six were successful – or content – to varying degrees or at least behaved that way when in the company of people who had known them most of their lives. Much of that ease of communication, Brunetti believed, came of their having a common store of cultural and historical references as well as their generation’s unspoken and unconsidered ethical standards.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before allowing himself to consider what those might be, Brunetti pushed aside the covers and went down to the bathroom to have a shower.</p>
			<p class="TX">The hot water restored his spirits, as did the length of time – his children not there to protest about the waste of water – he spent under it. He went back to the bedroom, draped the towel over the back of a chair, and started to get dressed. He pulled out the trousers of a suit he hadn’t worn since the winter, dark grey cashmere and wool and bought for almost nothing when the men’s clothing store in Campo San Luca had closed two years before. Strange, he thought, as he pushed the button through the buttonhole: they had seemed to fit him better when he had bought the suit. Perhaps the dry cleaning had tightened them somehow; surely they would loosen up as the day wore on and he moved around wearing them.</p>
			<p class="TX">He sat on the chair, pulled on a pair of dark socks and black shoes he’d bought in Milano years before and that had moulded themselves to his feet as time passed and that never failed to convey a thrill of sensual delight as he slipped them on.</p>
			<p class="TX">Before he put on his jacket, he considered wearing a vest but, remembering how warm it had been the day before, decided it was unnecessary: the good weather of late autumn could be counted on for another day. In the kitchen, he looked on the table for a note from Paola but found nothing. It was Monday, so she would not be home before late afternoon, spending the time in her office at the university, ostensibly to speak to the doctoral candidates whose dissertations she was overseeing. She delighted in the fact that they seldom came to speak to her, leaving her quite happy to sit undisturbed in her office, preparing classes or reading. Thus the life of the scholar, Brunetti reflected.</p>
			<p class="TX">He left the house and started for the Questura, but turned immediately into Rizzardini for a coffee and a brioche, and then another coffee and a glass of mineral water. Braced by caffeine and sugar, Brunetti turned towards Rialto and the business of passing through the centre of the city at half past ten in the morning, just as the people who had done their grocery shopping at the market were beginning to be replaced by the tourists in search of their first <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">ombra</em> or prosecco, all bent on having what they had been told was a real Venetian experience.</p>
			<p class="TX">Twenty minutes later, he turned right on to the <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">riva</em> that led to the Questura and, looking across the canal, saw the cleaned and restored façade of the church of San Lorenzo, no longer a church but a gallery of some sort, dedicated, he had been told, to the salvation of the seas. The decades-old billboard giving the year of the beginning of the ever-unconcluded restoration had been removed, as had the wooden condominium built by local residents for stray cats that had stood there for as long as Brunetti could remember.</p>
			<p class="TX">As he arrived outside the Questura, he saw his superior, Vice-Questore Giuseppe Patta, at the bottom of the staircase at the far end of the entrance hall. Instinctively, Brunetti pulled his <em class="I _idGenCharOverride-1">telefonino</em> from the pocket of his jacket and bent his head over it, nodding to the officer who opened the glass door for him but not moving into the building. He stopped and poked angrily at the front of his phone, then turned to the officer and said, making no attempt to disguise his irritation, ‘Do you have any connection down here, Graziano?’</p>
			<p class="TX">The officer on guard duty, aware that Brunetti was arriving for work two hours late and that the Vice-Questore did not view the Commissario with a benevolent eye, said, ‘It’s been going in and out all morning, Signore. Did you manage to connect by going out there?’ He nodded towards the space in front of the Questura.</p>
			<p class="TX">Brunetti shook his head, saying, ‘It’s no better out there. Makes me crazy that there’s . . .’ but stopped when he saw his superior walking towards him. ‘Good morning, Vice-Questore,’ he said, then added in a helpful voice, holding up his phone, ‘Don’t even bother going outside to try, Dottore. There’s no hope. Nothing’s working.’</p>
			<p class="TX">That said, Brunetti slipped the phone back into his pocket and pointed, quite unnecessarily, towards the stairs. ‘I’m going to check the phone on my desk again and see if it’s working yet.’</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta, entirely confused, asked, ‘What’s wrong, Brunetti?’ His tone, Brunetti thought, was remarkably similar to the one he had himself used, when the kids were younger and told him they had no homework to do that evening.</p>
			<p class="TX">Like a prosecutor holding up the plastic bag with the bloodstained knife inside to show to the press photographer, he pulled out his phone again and showed it to his superior. ‘There’s no connection.’</p>
			<p class="TX">From the corner of his eye, he saw Graziano nod in agreement, quite as if he had watched Brunetti’s failure to make a call.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned from Brunetti and asked the officer, ‘Where’s Foa?’</p>
			<p class="TX">‘He should be here in three minutes, Vice-Questore,’ Graziano assured him, looking at his watch and somehow managing to seem taller when he spoke to their superior. As if summoned by the Vice-Questore’s desire, the police launch turned into the canal and passed quickly in front of the church, under the bridge, and slowed to a stop at the dock just beyond where the three men stood.</p>
			<p class="TX">Patta turned away silently from the two men and walked towards the boat, its motor reduced to a purr. Foa tossed a rope around the nearest stanchion and jumped down to the pavement, saluted the Vice-Questore, stepped back and extended his arm, as if to clear a group of pesky reporters from the space between them. Patta viewed any motion made within a metre of his person as an attempt to help him and placed a hand upon Foa’s forearm to steady himself as he stepped up on to the boat.</p>
			<p class="TX">Foa smiled to his two colleagues, flipped the rope free, leaped over the gunwale and landed in front of the wheel. The engine gave a roar, and Foa spun the launch in a tight U and headed back the way he’d come.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:47:39 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:47:40 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-15 00:47:41 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-15 00:47:42 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:45 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:46 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:47:49 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:47:50 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:47:50 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:47:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:47:55 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:47:55 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-15 00:47:55 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@670766bf
