2023-03-15 00:51:34 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-03-15 00:51:34 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-15 00:52:02 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-15 00:52:02 INFO  - Session id - a79ffd0f0a7b67883ac3bef27b9755beeb0da763
2023-03-15 00:52:02 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-15 00:52:02 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:04 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:05 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:52:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-15 00:52:09 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:11 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-15 00:52:11 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:13 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:15 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-15 00:52:15 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:15 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:17 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:18 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:19 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000304
2023-03-15 00:52:19 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-15 00:52:20 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-03-15 00:52:20 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-03-15 00:52:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:52:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000304'
2023-03-15 00:52:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-15 00:52:22 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-15 00:52:24 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:52:30 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:52:30 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-15 00:52:51 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:52:51 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-15 00:52:51 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:53:14 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-15 00:53:34 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:53:36 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-15 00:53:36 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-15 00:53:36 INFO  - randomBookName: Small Business Startup Guide
2023-03-15 00:53:37 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-15 00:53:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Small Business Startup Guide'
2023-03-15 00:53:40 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-15 00:53:44 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-15 00:53:45 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:53:47 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:53:57 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-15 00:53:57 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:53:58 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:53:58 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:54:00 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:00 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-15 00:54:00 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-15 00:54:15 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-15 00:54:16 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:16 INFO  - Step 12 - I change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-03-15 00:54:16 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:17 INFO  - Step 13 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:54:17 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:17 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:54:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:18 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Chapter-Header_Introduction" id="_idParaDest-1"><span><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">T</span>hrough coaching dozens of prospective entrepreneurs, the same requests for foundational, practical advice continued to surface. This book was written to help you maximize your business knowledge, minimize your risk, and show you the path to creating a successful small<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This book is structured in three parts: business theory, which explains the inherent risk in starting a business and gives you a plan for mitigating that risk; business finance, which will teach you the steps you need to know and the experts you need to reach out to in order to get your finances in order; and business operations, which covers the nitty-gritty of running a successful<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">While the material here will teach you a great deal about the mechanics of a startup, there are four keys you <span class="ITALIC">must</span> understand and believe before you start your business. If you don’t, you will fail—or worse, you’ll never even get<span> started.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">First, time is money. You are always either making money or spending it. When you are spending, it should be for the sake of advancing your business, developing yourself, networking, or strengthening your relationships with family and<span> friends.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Second, the more you pay, the more you pay attention. If you are going to make it in starting your own business, you have to be <span class="ITALIC">all in</span>. You have to be willing to pay for access to experts who can mentor you in critical areas. The bigger the investment you make, the more likely you are to follow<span> through.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Third, successful entrepreneurs support each other. You must build your entrepreneurial network. Be willing to support other small businesses in the interest of reciprocated goodwill. Find mentors, join a mastermind, or become a member of a professional association. Pay for access; if advice is free, then everyone else has it too. The more you invest in other businesses, the more they will invest in<span> yours.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Fourth, the time to act is <span class="ITALIC">now</span>. There will never be a better time to start your business. The conditions will never be perfect. Develop your plan, set it in motion, and follow up. Invite your entrepreneurial network to hold you accountable to your goals. Don’t be afraid to<span> fail.</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table001">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip: </span>Maximizing your comprehension of both this book and your business coaching requires a deliberate, disciplined approach to note-taking. The capture-and-create method, developed by learning expert Jim Kwik, provides an efficient tool to help you focus and retain information. For more details on the method, as well as a list of the principles of effective note-taking, see Appendix<span> B.</span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:54:18 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:19 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-15 00:54:43 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-15 00:54:43 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:44 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-15 00:54:45 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:45 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:54:46 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:46 INFO  - Step 18 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:54:46 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:48 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:49 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:49 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:54:50 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:50 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Chapter-Header_Introduction" id="_idParaDest-1"><span><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">T</span>hrough coaching dozens of prospective entrepreneurs, the same requests for foundational, practical advice continued to surface. This book was written to help you maximize your business knowledge, minimize your risk, and show you the path to creating a successful small<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This book is structured in three parts: business theory, which explains the inherent risk in starting a business and gives you a plan for mitigating that risk; business finance, which will teach you the steps you need to know and the experts you need to reach out to in order to get your finances in order; and business operations, which covers the nitty-gritty of running a successful<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">While the material here will teach you a great deal about the mechanics of a startup, there are four keys you <span class="ITALIC">must</span> understand and believe before you start your business. If you don’t, you will fail—or worse, you’ll never even get<span> started.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">First, time is money. You are always either making money or spending it. When you are spending, it should be for the sake of advancing your business, developing yourself, networking, or strengthening your relationships with family and<span> friends.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Second, the more you pay, the more you pay attention. If you are going to make it in starting your own business, you have to be <span class="ITALIC">all in</span>. You have to be willing to pay for access to experts who can mentor you in critical areas. The bigger the investment you make, the more likely you are to follow<span> through.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Third, successful entrepreneurs support each other. You must build your entrepreneurial network. Be willing to support other small businesses in the interest of reciprocated goodwill. Find mentors, join a mastermind, or become a member of a professional association. Pay for access; if advice is free, then everyone else has it too. The more you invest in other businesses, the more they will invest in<span> yours.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Fourth, the time to act is <span class="ITALIC">now</span>. There will never be a better time to start your business. The conditions will never be perfect. Develop your plan, set it in motion, and follow up. Invite your entrepreneurial network to hold you accountable to your goals. Don’t be afraid to<span> fail.</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table001">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip: </span>Maximizing your comprehension of both this book and your business coaching requires a deliberate, disciplined approach to note-taking. The capture-and-create method, developed by learning expert Jim Kwik, provides an efficient tool to help you focus and retain information. For more details on the method, as well as a list of the principles of effective note-taking, see Appendix<span> B.</span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:54:50 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:50 INFO  - Step 19 - I return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-15 00:54:51 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:52 INFO  - Step 20 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-15 00:54:53 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:53 INFO  - Step 21 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-03-15 00:54:54 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:54 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:54:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:55 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Chapter-Header_Introduction" id="_idParaDest-1"><span><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">T</span>hrough coaching dozens of prospective entrepreneurs, the same requests for foundational, practical advice continued to surface. This book was written to help you maximize your business knowledge, minimize your risk, and show you the path to creating a successful small<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This book is structured in three parts: business theory, which explains the inherent risk in starting a business and gives you a plan for mitigating that risk; business finance, which will teach you the steps you need to know and the experts you need to reach out to in order to get your finances in order; and business operations, which covers the nitty-gritty of running a successful<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">While the material here will teach you a great deal about the mechanics of a startup, there are four keys you <span class="ITALIC">must</span> understand and believe before you start your business. If you don’t, you will fail—or worse, you’ll never even get<span> started.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">First, time is money. You are always either making money or spending it. When you are spending, it should be for the sake of advancing your business, developing yourself, networking, or strengthening your relationships with family and<span> friends.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Second, the more you pay, the more you pay attention. If you are going to make it in starting your own business, you have to be <span class="ITALIC">all in</span>. You have to be willing to pay for access to experts who can mentor you in critical areas. The bigger the investment you make, the more likely you are to follow<span> through.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Third, successful entrepreneurs support each other. You must build your entrepreneurial network. Be willing to support other small businesses in the interest of reciprocated goodwill. Find mentors, join a mastermind, or become a member of a professional association. Pay for access; if advice is free, then everyone else has it too. The more you invest in other businesses, the more they will invest in<span> yours.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Fourth, the time to act is <span class="ITALIC">now</span>. There will never be a better time to start your business. The conditions will never be perfect. Develop your plan, set it in motion, and follow up. Invite your entrepreneurial network to hold you accountable to your goals. Don’t be afraid to<span> fail.</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table001">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip: </span>Maximizing your comprehension of both this book and your business coaching requires a deliberate, disciplined approach to note-taking. The capture-and-create method, developed by learning expert Jim Kwik, provides an efficient tool to help you focus and retain information. For more details on the method, as well as a list of the principles of effective note-taking, see Appendix<span> B.</span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:54:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:56 INFO  - Step 22 - I open font settings
2023-03-15 00:54:56 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:57 INFO  - Step 23 - I change font style to FONT_SANS
2023-03-15 00:54:57 INFO  - Button 'setFontSans' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:54:57 INFO  - Step 24 - Book text displays in FONT_SANS font
2023-03-15 00:54:58 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-15 00:54:58 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-15 00:54:59 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:59 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-2" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Chapter-Header_Introduction" id="_idParaDest-1"><span><a id="_idTextAnchor000"></a>Introduction</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">T</span>hrough coaching dozens of prospective entrepreneurs, the same requests for foundational, practical advice continued to surface. This book was written to help you maximize your business knowledge, minimize your risk, and show you the path to creating a successful small<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This book is structured in three parts: business theory, which explains the inherent risk in starting a business and gives you a plan for mitigating that risk; business finance, which will teach you the steps you need to know and the experts you need to reach out to in order to get your finances in order; and business operations, which covers the nitty-gritty of running a successful<span> business.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">While the material here will teach you a great deal about the mechanics of a startup, there are four keys you <span class="ITALIC">must</span> understand and believe before you start your business. If you don’t, you will fail—or worse, you’ll never even get<span> started.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">First, time is money. You are always either making money or spending it. When you are spending, it should be for the sake of advancing your business, developing yourself, networking, or strengthening your relationships with family and<span> friends.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Second, the more you pay, the more you pay attention. If you are going to make it in starting your own business, you have to be <span class="ITALIC">all in</span>. You have to be willing to pay for access to experts who can mentor you in critical areas. The bigger the investment you make, the more likely you are to follow<span> through.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Third, successful entrepreneurs support each other. You must build your entrepreneurial network. Be willing to support other small businesses in the interest of reciprocated goodwill. Find mentors, join a mastermind, or become a member of a professional association. Pay for access; if advice is free, then everyone else has it too. The more you invest in other businesses, the more they will invest in<span> yours.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Fourth, the time to act is <span class="ITALIC">now</span>. There will never be a better time to start your business. The conditions will never be perfect. Develop your plan, set it in motion, and follow up. Invite your entrepreneurial network to hold you accountable to your goals. Don’t be afraid to<span> fail.</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table001">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip: </span>Maximizing your comprehension of both this book and your business coaching requires a deliberate, disciplined approach to note-taking. The capture-and-create method, developed by learning expert Jim Kwik, provides an efficient tool to help you focus and retain information. For more details on the method, as well as a list of the principles of effective note-taking, see Appendix<span> B.</span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-15 00:54:59 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-15 00:54:59 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-15 00:55:01 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-15 00:55:02 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:55:04 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:55:06 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:55:07 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:55:08 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:55:09 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:55:09 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-15 00:55:09 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:55:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:55:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-15 00:55:14 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-15 00:55:14 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@670766bf
