2023-08-28 03:45:07 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-28 03:45:07 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-28 03:45:33 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-28 03:45:33 INFO  - Session id - 78eeded34ee1b5ab59242325a06abfbd429f765a
2023-08-28 03:45:33 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-28 03:45:33 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:35 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-28 03:45:36 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-28 03:45:36 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:36 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-28 03:45:38 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-28 03:45:38 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:45:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-28 03:45:43 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:43 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-28 03:45:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:45 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:46 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:47 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-28 03:45:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:50 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:51 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:45:52 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-08-28 03:45:52 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: Cryptonomicon Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:45:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-08-28 03:45:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:45:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-28 03:45:56 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:46:02 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:46:03 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-28 03:46:24 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:46:24 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-28 03:46:24 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:46:47 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-28 03:47:07 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:09 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-28 03:47:09 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-4
2023-08-28 03:47:09 INFO  - randomBookName: Two Girls and a Guy
2023-08-28 03:47:09 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-28 03:47:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Two Girls and a Guy'
2023-08-28 03:47:12 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-28 03:47:15 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-28 03:47:16 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:47:16 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:23 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-28 03:47:24 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:47:24 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:25 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-28 03:47:25 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:26 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-28 03:47:26 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-28 03:47:45 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-28 03:47:45 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:46 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-28 03:47:46 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:46 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-28 03:47:47 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-28 03:47:47 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-28 03:47:48 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-28 03:47:49 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Two Girls and a Guy-The Geometry Lesson</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788726477252.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block2">
            <h1 id="h13">The Geometry Lesson
   </h1>
            <h1 id="h14">by Dave W
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line5"> 
   </p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo7">With a certain resignation, he reached out his hand and turned off the bedside lamp. In the dark, his hand brushed over the other side of the bed, which was untouched. This kind of physical reminder that he was alone was, of course, completely unnecessary. A confirmation that his evening had turned out to be a failure.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo8">He had to admit, though, that it was his own fault.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo9">He had been looking forward to Petter’s visit for a long time. Petter was one of his best friends, and now that he was living abroad, they didn’t see each other very often. He was one of their best friends, actually. Christine was crazy about him. And really, it hadn’t been unusual for him to go to sleep alone and leave the two of them sitting outside, with something to drink and plenty to talk about. But that night, he had been hoping for – no, counting on! – something more. The last time Petter had come to visit, the evening had taken an unexpected turn, one that he had so often fantasised about. Petter had chosen the music. Soon the three of them had were dancing around together, to Katie Melua’s sensual beats. And before he knew what was happening, they had let themselves be carried away by a wonderful threesome, in which Christine had fulfilled her secret dream of having two lovers at once – and a probably more secret dream of making love with Petter... Well, perhaps, he had dreamed about it more often than her. But still, was it so crazy to expect that the situation could repeat itself?</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo10">The evening had gotten off to the worse start. Christine had probably tried to drop a few hints before that, even though he had tried to remain blind. Hadn’t she given him a sign already after that first time, letting him know that she had felt pushed into the game? That indeed it had been him to suggest it, and she hadn’t liked being manipulated like that? Hadn’t she let him know that he shouldn’t expect this to become a common occurrence? Also, right before Petter got there, she had said straight out that she didn’t want any strange allusions. Thomas had felt attacked and had tried to defend himself. It had just made things worse. She had just cried back that he was “obsessed with sex” and that there was no way this night was going to take an erotic turn. He gave up, of course, but he was in a terrible mood and didn’t quite manage to hide it. And although they had a pleasant dinner, he had dropped some ironic hints that Petter had tried to brush off, but which had probably offended Christine. Eventually, he’d said that he had an early morning the next day, and had gone to bed.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo11">So now he lay there alone in the double bed, feeling annoyed, both at himself and at Christine. Lying in the darkness, upset and frustrated, sleep just wouldn’t come.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo12">“I’ll come to bed soon, too,” she had said as he left.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo13">But she hadn’t come. They sure had a lot to talk about, those two. Or was something else going on? Not that he really believed it. But after a while, as the minutes ticked by, he became more and more obsessed with finding out. Over half an hour had gone by. Finally, he stood up, put on his robe and slid out into the hallway outside the bedroom.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo14">The moment he opened the door, he realised that something was going on. He heard Katie Melua playing on the living room stereo. As quietly as he could, he moved in the direction of the sweet music that brought back so many erotic memories. The living room was dimly lit. And in the middle of the room, he saw the two of them move in a slow dance. Christine had her arms around Petter’s neck, her face buried against his shoulder. Her blouse was open, and he could see how one of Petter’s hands was massaging her large naked breasts. He almost couldn’t believe his eyes. She pressed up against his body as the sensual music played. She lifted her face up towards him. Their lips met in a long, deep kiss. Now he noticed that her trousers were also unbuttoned, and Petter’s hand was moving down from her breasts, stroking her naked stomach, before it disappeared between her thighs, under her trousers and panties. Christine writhed and sighed lightly when he found her most secret spot, that by now was surely wet and smooth and warm against Petter’s searching fingers. Thomas could almost feel it.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo15">He was fascinated by what he saw. It was a beautiful and sensual scene – it was incredibly arousing to see Christine like that. He was turned on, and he felt his cock begin to stiffen underneath the smooth robe. At the same time, he felt a pang of jealousy. Not because Christine clearly wanted Petter and was acting according to her desire. He had been the one to take the initiative, the first time. But now, she was cutting him out. And not just that; she had actually told him that nothing erotic was going to happen tonight, but then she’d gotten going as soon as he’d been out of sight! But wasn’t it also exciting? He actually wanted her to be freer, he wanted that for her! Now his cock was pounding hard, and couldn’t help but grab it as he watched the other two embrace in an increasingly intense dance, right there in front of him, on the living room floor.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo16">How long could he stand there and look at them? He thought about letting them know he was there. Maybe they’d let him join the game? But he pushed the thought away. They wouldn’t like it, they’d feel interrupted, revealed, it would ruin it all for them, but also for him in a way. Should he just stay there and see how far they would go? Count on the fact that they wouldn’t realise he was there? He felt a bit like a voyeur, a strange guilty conscience as if he were the one doing something wrong by spying on them, and not those two out on the dance floor. And all the while, he was more and more turned on.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo17">Then, suddenly, it was no longer up to him to decide. Christine turned her head in his direction, he didn’t dodge quickly enough, so she looked right at him, in the doorway where he stood. For a moment, he wondered what he should say or do, to help her and all of them out of this awkward situation. But Christine left him no time to think. She freed herself from Petter’s arms, pulled her blouse around her naked breasts, and in a few long steps, she was standing in front of him and looking strictly into his eyes.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo18">What are you doing here?”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo19">Thomas was completely taken aback and didn’t manage to answer before she went on:</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo20">“I thought you said you were going to bed? Yet you’re standing here, spying on us? Controlling me?”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo21">He tried to protest, in a weak, stuttering voice.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo22">“Come on, Christine, this is...”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo23">But she cut him off. “I have no intention of discussing this with you here. Let’s go to the bedroom!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo24">And then she grabbed his ear as if he were a disobedient schoolboy, as she turned towards Petter:</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo25">“I’ll be back soon – I just need to get this settled, first!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo26">Thomas saw how Petter, looking a little flustered, remained standing there and watching them as she dragged him down the hall.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo27">Confused, he let his wife’s hard grip lead him on. He didn’t manage to decide what he should make of this situation, not to mention how he should react before they reached the bedroom.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo28">“Take off your robe! Get in position!” Christine commanded.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo29">This was a command Thomas was familiar with – it wasn’t uncommon for them to play erotic games based on this type of old-fashioned punishment, and indeed, they were often very exciting. But what kind of game was this? He nevertheless obeyed, almost automatically, and bent over, naked, supporting himself with his hands on the bed. And he couldn’t help but realise that Christine’s unexpected reaction had only turned him on even more. Game or no game, his cock was throbbing hard against his stomach, as he stood there leaning over in this humiliating position. He heard Christine open the closet where she kept the cane they usually played with.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo30">“I’d thought you might want to come and spy on us,” she said coolly. “That you might not actually be quite as open-minded and relaxed as you want to sound when you say I need to feel more erotic! That, indeed, you want to be in charge. But now, you’ll learn that I am the one who decides and that this kind of behaviour deserves a punishment!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo31">And then she swished the cane in the air and smacked his naked butt hard. He cried out and tried to get up and couldn’t help but rub the spot where the stinging cane had hit him.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo32">“Back into position!” Christine ordered, cold as ice. “You remember our rules, don’t you? You must stay in position until I inform you that I am done!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo33">Slowly, he bent forward onto the bed again. He was beginning to realise that something new was about to happen between them and that he couldn’t nor didn’t want to stop it. The cane came swishing down again, and again and again... Christine punished him with the stinging stick, systematically, until his ass was burning hot and sore. He desperately tried to obey her orders and not move a muscle as the whole thing went on. Eventually, she was done, and she commanded him to go stand into the corner of shame.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo34">He heard her fumble in the closet again but didn’t dare turn around to see what she was happening. Then he felt her coming behind him, sneaking a hand in front of him and grabbing his hard cock.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo35">“Now I’ve let Petter wait long enough,” she said briskly. “You stand here, and no matter what happens, you can’t turn around or change position until I tell you so.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo36">He nodded, without speaking. She squeezed his cock hard and continued:</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo37">“And since you are so horny, I must make sure you won’t be tempted to play with yourself while you’re standing here.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo38">Then she pulled his arms behind his back, and moving quickly, she placed a leather cuff around each of his wrists and hooked them together. He heard her walk out of the room and down the hall again, towards the living room.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo39">Thomas didn’t know what to think or to believe. His thoughts kept revolving around what was going on in the living room, and his jealousy was growing by the second. Now they had <i>really</i> cut him out! But in a way, hadn’t she also included him, with this new form of the game? A game that turned him on. There was no doubt about it. His cock was throbbing hard, he felt an almost irresistible urge to touch himself, but it was impossible, with his hands tied behind his back. Of course, he could have escaped if he had wanted to; but standing there, obediently, like Christine had ordered to, was even more arousing to him. Christine’s new game was so captivating.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo40">The minutes crept forward. In the distance, he could hear the sensual music playing in the living room, filling his mind with images of the two involved in hotter and hotter games. Then suddenly he heard steps in the hallway, coming towards the bedroom. Did they want him to join them, at last? What had Christine said to Petter? Had she told him about the cane? He could still feel the sting burning in his butt, and the fiery red colour of his buttocks would surely reveal what had happened. The thought that Petter would see him standing like that felt surreal. But he also knew that he neither could nor wanted to spoil the game. Now they were inside the room. He was about to turn towards them, but he remembered what Christine had said. Regardless of what happened, he had to wait for new instructions. He forced himself to stand still in the corner.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo41">Nobody spoke. But he heard the sounds of their heavy breathing, their deep kisses, warm, wet, hungry. He heard the sound of clothes falling to the ground, of hands grabbing each others’ bodies. Their arousal filled the room. He heard Christine falling onto the bed. With all his senses – except his sight – he felt Petter following after, between Christine’s naked legs. Thomas could almost physically feel how Petter moved his face up towards her open, warm pussy. He heard the sounds of his friend’s tongue against his wife’s wet, smooth labia; of Christine moaning in pleasure. Petter’s tongue had found her clit. Perhaps one of his hands was massaging her soft breasts, rubbing her stiff nipples just like he himself used to do. She breathed faster and faster, louder and louder. Was he also sliding a finger inside her, all the way to her most secret spot? Now her whole body was tensing around him, Thomas knew it, he felt it, she was getting close, and then he heard her cuming, when she cried out her lust, gasped in the throes of a violent orgasm, a long one, yes, ohhhh, yeeeeees....!</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo42">Thomas was in a trance. Miles away, he heard Christine cry out that she wanted Petter inside of her. And then she barked a command that dragged him back to reality:</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo43">“Thomas, turn around! Now you must look!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo44">He turned around, slowly, towards the two lovers on the bed. Feeling impotent and turned on at once, he saw Petter kneeling before his naked, beautiful wife, with his large, wonderful hard-on swaying eager above her. Christine spread her legs further, she got ready to take him in. Infinitely slowly, Petter sank down towards her. Thomas watched as he pushed inside her, dove deep into her open, hungry pussy while she put her legs around him and welcomed him in. They began to move together, rhythmically, as Petter thrust harder and faster in and out of her, Christine moaned in pleasure, cried out a few incomprehensible words, she clung to him, as the ride became more intense and violent. Petter was breathing louder and faster now, Thomas could almost feel his friend’s climax coming close. And then he looked as Petter gave in to his pleasure. With a long, low cry he came, and Thomas knew that Petter was shooting his hot load inside his wife, while his own hard-on throbbed helplessly as he stood and watched.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo45">At the end of an exhausted embrace that seemed to last hours, Petter pulled out of her. Christine looked at Thomas, her eyes full of horniness and a kind of teasing tenderness. “Come here, my love,” she said. Slowly, he walked towards the bed. He stood in front of her, his hands still tied behind his back. She reached out and grabbed his throbbing cock. She carefully began to jerk him off, pulling his foreskin back and forth over his tip that was dripping with a clear liquid.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo46">“Seems that you liked what you saw,” she said softly. “Maybe it’s your turn now?”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo47">He wanted to answer, but she stopped him.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo48">“No, don’t say a word! Just listen to me!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo49">With her hand around his cock, she kept jerking him off slowly, as she continued.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo50">“This is just a little lesson to be learned, you see. A geometry lesson. You are so interested in triangles, I understand. And tonight I want to teach you something important. There are many types of triangles. Not all are equilateral. Triangles with me are not equilateral. I am the one who decides. You have learned this, haven’t you?”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo51">She squeezed his cock hard, as he nodded silently, feeling that he was reaching the point of no return. She noticed it as well, and let go of him.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo52">“This turned me on again,” she said with a teasing smile. “I want a cock inside me again.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo53">Thomas felt that the desire to get inside her almost overwhelmed him, and he leaned forward towards her. But she stopped him.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo54">“No, not you, not tonight. I want Petter’s cock inside of me.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo55">She turned partway around towards Petter, who was lying behind her on the bed. He had been following the whole scene with great attention. Her hand grabbed his cock, which was already half-stiff again. She looked up at Thomas:</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo56">“But if you obey me completely, I’ll let you find your release eventually... I want to see you suck Petter for me, hard, Thomas! And if you two truly understand that my desire sets the rules, then you’ll let me see this...”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo57">Thomas met Petter’s gaze. This was completely new. And what about Petter? Did he want this? Petter smiled, gently and encouragingly. They were both completely overpowered by Christine. Slowly, Thomas bent forward over the bed and brought his face close to his friend’s cock. He opened his mouth and closed his lips carefully around his cock. It was an incredible feeling, unlike anything he had ever felt. The warm, wet cock tasted of Christine’s juices, but also of something different, strange. He took it deeper in, moved his mouth up and down along it, growing bolder and more determined, then he tried to suck, thinking about what he himself liked when Christine did it to him. And then, what a wonderful warm feeling, he felt his friend reacting, his cock slowly beginning to grow inside his mouth, coming to life, becoming larger and harder.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo58">Christine smiled and looked at them. Her eyes shone with lust. One hand had made its way down between her thighs, and with skilled fingers, she was playing with herself. Now Thomas felt that his friend’s cock was rock-hard. He gently pulled back, and with a sense of humiliation mixed with desire, he told himself that he had obeyed. He had gotten Petter ready to fuck his own wife again. Christine turned over to the side, with her back to Petter, and lifted one leg a bit. Then she grabbed his hard-on and pushed it inside herself from behind so that Thomas could see the whole thing. And as Petter started thrusting his massive cock in and out between her open, shiny, smooth labia, she reached out her hand and grabbed Thomas’s throbbing cock again. His hands still tied behind his back, he kneeled helplessly before the two lovers on the bed and let her jerk him off, and without taking his eyes off Petter’s cock sliding in and out of Christine’s hungry pussy, he felt his orgasm building up inside him. His whole body shook, as horniness took over him and he came. With a cry, he shot his juices out over the bed.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo59">Christine looked at him for a long time, a new tenderness in her eyes.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo60">“I think you’ve learned enough geometry for tonight, Thomas,” she said softly. “Turn around!”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo61">She freed his hands.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo62">“There is a bottle of champagne in the fridge,” she continued. “Go get it. And glasses.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo63">He stood up, looked at her. She read the unspoken question in his eyes.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo64">“Yes, you can fetch three glasses,” she smiled. “This triangle is not equilateral, but it still has three sides.”</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo65">Then she led her fingers down to her pussy while Petter continued thrusting rhythmically in and out of her.</p>
         <p class="Corpo" id="Corpo66">On the way back towards the bedroom, carrying the champagne bottle and three glasses on a tray, Thomas heard Christine cry out her pleasure again, in a new, violent orgasm. As he walked in, he saw that Petter was also coming again, with a final deep thrust inside her. He stood in the doorway for a moment, holding the tray, and let the image of the two lovers on the bed sink in. It turned him on again. The night wasn’t over. And with a teacher like that, he was looking forward to continuing studying.</p>
         <p class="leading-line" id="leading-line6"> 
   </p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-08-28 03:47:49 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-28 03:47:49 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-28 03:47:51 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-28 03:47:52 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:55 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:56 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:57 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:47:58 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:47:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:48:00 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:48:20 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:48:21 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-28 03:48:21 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2d706ff3
