2023-08-28 03:38:34 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-28 03:38:34 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-28 03:39:00 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-28 03:39:00 INFO  - Session id - c43ddfc137cd4c013cc8da4413dc54868f9bea96
2023-08-28 03:39:00 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-28 03:39:00 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:02 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-28 03:39:03 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-28 03:39:03 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:03 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-28 03:39:04 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-28 03:39:04 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:39:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-28 03:39:08 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:08 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-28 03:39:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:11 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:13 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-28 03:39:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:14 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:15 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:16 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-08-28 03:39:16 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: Cryptonomicon Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:39:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-08-28 03:39:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-28 03:39:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-28 03:39:20 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:39:26 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:39:26 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-28 03:39:47 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:39:48 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-28 03:39:48 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:40:10 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-28 03:40:30 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:40:32 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-28 03:40:32 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-3
2023-08-28 03:40:32 INFO  - randomBookName: Santa Cruise
2023-08-28 03:40:32 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-28 03:40:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Santa Cruise'
2023-08-28 03:40:35 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-28 03:40:37 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-28 03:40:38 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:40:39 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:40:45 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-28 03:40:45 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:40:46 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:40:46 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-28 03:40:47 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:40:47 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-28 03:40:48 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-28 03:41:07 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-28 03:41:07 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:08 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-28 03:41:08 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:09 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-28 03:41:10 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-28 03:41:10 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-28 03:41:11 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-28 03:41:11 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

	<title>Santa Cruise</title>
	<link href="e9781496731210_css.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:40abe510-d755-44a3-b2e3-8101a4064eba" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter">
<a id="title1"></a><div class="title-chapter">Chapter One</div> 
<div class="p-br"><span class="i">June</span> <br /><span class="i">Ridgewood, New Jersey</span></div> 
<div class="p-blanc"> <br /></div> 
<div class="p"><span class="let"><span class="b">T</span></span>he big banner read <span class="sc">WELCOME RIDGEWOOD HIGH CLASSMATES</span>! For some, it was a frightening experience. For others, it was an opportunity to show off how far they had come in the fifteen years since leaving high school.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Francesca (Frankie) Cappella was on the fence. She had built an excellent reputation in the publishing industry, marketing books for authors and publishers, but her love of music and the desire to perform had never left her. After graduating from a top music school, she had spent six years in New York City, auditioning for every part for which she thought she was suited. She had a “big voice” with a lot of nuance, but the producers were looking for a big <span class="i">nasal</span> voice, something that made her cringe. Sure, she could sing that way if she had to, but she hated it. Why would she want to do something she hates? It took all the pleasure out of singing for her. Eventually, every singer sounded the same. She had spent too many years working on her own sound. Taking matters into her own hands, she found a producer and cut a few tracks. She got some radio airplay, but without the backing of a big record company, she could only go so far. During the years she had spent following her dream, to pay the rent she had worked as a temp for a number of large corporations, eventually taking a full-time job with a publisher of comic books. Her parents knew that working in corporate America wasn’t in her heart, but it was a living, and living in New York was challenging enough.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">She eventually worked her way up to the top at a major publishing house, but she never felt as if she was a success, especially after the incident at the last reunion, when Drew Aikens said something right to her face. “Gee, Frankie, you were such a good singer. Too bad you never made it.” Those crushing words almost kept her from coming to this reunion, which included several classes besides hers. Still feeling the sting of those hurtful words, she thought to herself, <span class="i">Maybe that creep won’t show up.</span></div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie knew that some would be envious of her position as a vice president of a successful publisher. Her life was interesting and filled with a lot of professional events, but she still felt that a piece was missing. A lover, a partner, a friend. Sure, she could have three different men, but what she really wanted was a man who was all three. <span class="i">Yeah. Good luck with that.</span></div> 
<div class="p-indent">She took one more glance at her reflection in the glass of the hotel artwork. <span class="i">Hair?</span> Jet black, slicked, and pulled into a long ponytail. <span class="i">Dress?</span> Figure-flattering little black dress that showed off her well-toned calves. <span class="i">Lipstick?</span> Bright<span class="i">.</span> She then had the horrifying thought she might have lipstick on her teeth. Next came the angst of her eyeliner running. But before she had the chance to pull out a small mirror, the squeals of Nina Hunter were heard across the lobby.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Frankie! Oh baby.” Nina Hunter pushed through the crowd and gave her friend a huge, crushing hug.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina was five feet eight inches tall, towering over Frankie’s five-foot-four-inch frame. In high school, Nina had been in every school play, community-theater production, and summer-camp program. That’s where she and Frankie had bonded. Frankie was the singer; Nina was the actress. Nina’s love was acting, and she was particularly good at it, so much so that she had landed a part on a television sitcom after attending the University of Southern California. She wasn’t the star of the show but had enough screen time to make her a fan favorite. Her long brown curly hair, big brown eyes, and long legs were hard to miss.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Nee-Na,” Frankie howled back, making sure her makeup didn’t smudge on Nina’s silk dress. “I wasn’t expecting to see you here!” Frankie was surprised but also tickled pink.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I have an audition in the city in a few days, so I thought I’d return to our old haunts.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“You mean Shut Up and Eat?” Frankie joked, referring to the local diner where they would hang out after football games or other school events. Only the coolest kids would go there.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Is it still there?” Nina asked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“It is. Butch Anderson organizes breakfasts there several times a year,” Frankie replied. “I’ve been to a few; but to be honest, I don’t feel I have anything in common with them anymore.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I think I know what you mean.” Nina put her arm around her friend. “It’s married couples talking about either their latest renovation or bragging about their kids.” Nina made a snoring sound, causing Frankie to burst out laughing.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh my goodness. You are <span class="i">so</span> right.” Frankie nodded in agreement. “I feel like the only thing I talk about is work or some function I’ve attended. They look at me as if I’m some kind of snob. Or weirdo.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I totally get it. If I’m not surrounded by Mr. and Mrs. Whoever, it’s someone in the biz blowing smoke about their latest script, treatment, and who <span class="i">migh</span>t be reading it next. I mean, it <span class="i">is</span> Hollywood, but it can be so superficial.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I can only imagine,” Frankie said. “I had a small taste of it when I was trying out for musicals. Funny thing, though, publishing isn’t all that different. It’s a sliver of show business. Besides, most of the publishing companies are owned by big conglomerates. But enough of that. Tell me about you. Besides your acting success, what else keeps you out of trouble?” Frankie chuckled.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“My dog.” Nina smiled. “He’s a big Bernese mountain dog named Winston. We go for hikes in the hills. He makes me feel safe on the trails even though he’s really a mush.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I assume you live in a house?” Frankie asked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh yeah. I cannot imagine Winston in an apartment. It would be like a bull in a china shop!” Nina chuckled. “I rent a small house in Topanga Canyon. It’s just far enough from the hustle that I can drain my brain after long days of shooting.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Glancing at the posters covered in student photos, Frankie said, “You’re probably the most successful graduate.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh, I don’t know about that. Yes, I am incredibly lucky to have landed this part, and I mean <span class="i">incredibly lucky</span>. It’s really about being in the right place at the right time.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Speaking of being in the right place, I think I may need to go to the bar and get a little something to soothe my nerves.” Frankie linked her arm through Nina’s.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Nervous? You?” Nina was surprised. “You were the ringleader, party thrower, class president, lead singer in a band, <span class="i">and</span> captain of the gymnastics team.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“That was <span class="i">before</span> I knew anything about life.” Frankie laughed. “Back then, I thought if you went for something and gave it your all, you’d be rewarded. And if you tried really hard but made a mistake, all would be forgiven, and you would get another chance. Nope. You make one mistake, and it goes into your permanent record.” Frankie used air quotes for “permanent record.” “This grown-up stuff isn’t easy.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina burst out laughing. “Kinda like you make one creepy low-budget film to try to get exposure, and you’re pegged as ‘Oh yeah, that Nina Hunter. Didn’t she play a disembodied creature in that hack movie?’ ”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women howled and continued making their way toward the bar. As they waited in line to be served, Frankie whispered to Nina, “Who <span class="i">are</span> these people?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina let out a guffaw, then whispered in return, “I think we went to high school with most of them.” She ordered a gin and tonic for herself. “Frankie? What are you having?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Hemlock?” Frankie chortled.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Ha! Wine? Or a stronger adult beverage?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’ll have what you’re having,” Frankie replied, and Nina held up two fingers to the bartender.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie lowered her voice further. “They all look so frumpy! Sure, you would expect that of the people who graduated a few years before us, but even our own classmates! Most of them look like they gave up caring years ago.” She nodded to a woman wearing clogs. Nina almost spit out her drink.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh my gosh. That’s Amy Blanchard. She hasn’t changed a bit.” Before either of them had an opportunity to say hello to Amy, a loud cry came from the throng.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Ladies!” It was Rachael Newmark, one of their old pals, doing a little rumba dance in their direction.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Honey!” Nina gave her a one-arm hug, trying not to spill her drink. “You look great! Still dancing, I see?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Rachael Newmark was the shortest and most petite of the three, with a brown pixie haircut, turned-up nose, and green eyes. “<span class="i">Chicas!</span> So good to see you. You both look fabulous.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">They immediately huddled and joked that they were not old enough to be at the reunion.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Amy caught a glimpse of the three women and started in their direction. “Well, if it isn’t the unholy trinity,” Amy teased.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie bit her lip, Nina was taken aback, and Rachael couldn’t help but blurt out, “I see the fashion police haven’t been here yet.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Amy blinked. “Oh these?” She pointed to her feet. “I broke my toe and, quite frankly, I don’t give a darn.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“When did you ever?” Rachael said, with a touch of sarcasm.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Good point,” Amy agreed. “But I’ll have you know that it’s quite the geek fashion statement now.” She took a bow.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">All four women laughed. Amy had been the geek, dweeb, nerd of the group. She was president of the science club in school but had a lot of team spirit and would always sign up to be the stage manager for the plays. She would often get teased because she was much more the intellect than most of her classmates, but Nina, Rachael, and Frankie always included her. They would refer to Amy as “the brains of the operation.” She still wore the same big black-rimmed glasses. Her ash-blond hair was adorned with a pink headband that matched her maxi dress. She had a pretty, round face with a milky complexion and rosy cheeks. There was a spunk and youthfulness about her that belied her age of thirty-three.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina took the lead. “Well, ladies, perhaps we should grab a table before we’re forced to sit with some creep from biology class.” They all laughed, recalling Billy Gwyer chasing the girls around with a garden snake.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Do you think he might be here?” Frankie surveyed the room.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“The big question is, is he as cute as he used to be?” Rachael snickered.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“You were always boy-crazy.” Amy poked at her.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“And look where I am now,” Rachael replied. “I got married because my parents didn’t want me running all over the world chasing men. And how did that turn out? Well, now I’m divorced.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“But are you still chasing men?” Nina joked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’ve given up.” Rachael sighed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“<span class="i">You?</span>” they mocked in unison.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“It’s slim pickings out there, girls. Even old Slim Pickens himself is no longer available.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women hooted. “I hear you loud and clear.” Frankie joined in. “I haven’t had a date—I mean a <span class="i">real</span> date—in probably three years.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“You can’t be serious.” Nina crowed. “Look at you. You’re stunning and successful.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Thanks, but that doesn’t seem to make for a great date, let alone girlfriend. My friend Ken once told me that I’m very intimidating.” Frankie shook her head. “I don’t get it. I’m so charming.” She smiled wryly.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Honey, I’m in the same single boat,” Nina confessed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“But you’re in the land of glamour and excitement,” Amy protested.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“It’s a lot of smoke and mirrors. Trust me,” Nina replied. “If I were a high-powered producer or an agent, I’d have a new date every night. But unless you can do something for someone, you’re not dating material.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I don’t believe it,” Amy objected. “You, famous actress, can’t get a date?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’m not that famous,” Nina said.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Well, you are to us,” Amy insisted.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yes, you are,” Frankie added, and Rachael agreed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">All eyes were on Amy. “So? What about you? Have you found geek love?” Nina asked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Nah. Most of the guys I meet are asexual or indifferent.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Funny how things change. When we were in high school, we had to beat the boys away with a stick.” Frankie laughed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“That’s because <span class="i">you</span> weren’t so intimidating back then.” Rachael poked fun at her friend.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">They leaned conspiratorially toward each other, ignoring everything that was going on around them, and caught up on the past fifteen years.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">After high school, Rachael Newmark had attended NYU. After she graduated, she had traveled to South America, where she met a suave but unemployed Paulo. With her trust-fund maturity on the near horizon, her parents clamped down on her escapades, forcing her father to hire a private jet to bring her back home. Following weeks of pouting, Rachael realized that if she ever wanted the money left to her by her grandmother, she needed to think about settling down. The thought sent chills up her spine, but reality had set in. She took a job at a bank, working in their international department, and began dating one of the accountants. She wasn’t madly, passionately in love with Greg, but he was steady and would be a good provider. Love was not her parents’ main concern. Stability was. A year later, they got married.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Two years after getting married, they had a son, but being a stay-at-home mom just wasn’t <span class="i">her</span> thing. She was restless and needed a purpose, something Greg couldn’t understand. Greg left the bank and went to work for an independent accounting firm. Rachael’s parents thought it would “look better” for Greg in their social circle if he worked at a high-powered company. If she wanted, Rachael could be a local socialite, join the garden club or the Junior League. But Rachael’s personality was not compatible with women who were prim, proper, and phony. Especially phony.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Before Ryan started school, Rachael would arrange playdates with other moms and kids, but after a period of time, she would get bored with the vacuous conversations and move on to another group.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">By the time Ryan entered kindergarten, Rachael was ready to climb the walls, so she took a part-time job at the local dance studio. She had always been an excellent dancer and had taken lessons in jazz, ballroom, and a variety of other disciplines. By the time she was eight, her parents had her schedule completely filled. Dancing lessons, piano lessons, tennis lessons, and water skiing were planned. Tutoring in foreign languages was also on her calendar. It was no surprise that she had rebelled after graduating.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Of all the extracurricular activities, it was the dancing that made her feel alive. She could lose herself in the music and the moves. Plus, it was important to know how to dance, especially when you had to attend galas and fundraisers. It wasn’t surprising that she was everyone’s favorite dance partner.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Within two years of working at Salon de la Danse, her classes became so popular that there was a six-month waiting list if you wanted to learn to salsa, rumba, or swing. People of all ages were clamoring for Rachael’s dancing excitement.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">But when Rachael was home with Greg, the only excitement was the argument du jour. It became obvious that their marriage wasn’t going to last, at least not without a lot of door slamming, yelling, and sulking.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Finally, after an uncomfortable dust-up at the country club, Rachael’s family intervened and encouraged her to get a divorce. They could see the pain in their daughter’s eyes whenever she and Greg would meet them at a social event or dinner. Her father took her aside and said, “Sweetheart, your mother and I have been talking.” That sentence was always a warning signal, but this time it worked to her favor. “We can see how unhappy you are, Rachael. I know your mother and I pressured you into getting married and having a family. But we never expected it to make you this miserable. It’s the last thing we want. We will help you with whatever resources you need, particularly a good lawyer.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Rachael was shocked and elated. Never in a million years did she think her parents would approve of a divorce. <span class="i">You made your miserable bed and now you have to lie in it</span> was a much better summation of their take on life<span class="i">.</span> But getting married hadn’t really been her choice. She <span class="i">had</span> been pressured into it. Yes, her parents wanted stability for her, but they hadn’t counted on the misery that went with it.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Aaron Newmark was a man of his word and provided Rachael the counsel of the best divorce attorney in the state, Lloyd Luttrell.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">She and Greg tried to keep the divorce civilized, although Rachael was always seething when it came to Greg. Over the course of their marriage, Greg had spent a good chunk of Rachael’s trust fund buying luxury cars and expensive designer clothes. That, too, caused a great deal of contention. He said it was important to look rich. No one was going to trust a poor-looking accountant. He had a point, but he had carried it much too far. He was supposed to be the breadwinner and she the dutiful wife, whose half-million-dollar bank account was at his disposal. As soon as the smell of divorce was in the air, Rachael’s father and her lawyer tied up all of her assets so Greg could no longer treat them as his personal piggy bank. They sold the elaborate McMansion they had bought with part of Rachael’s trust fund and put some of the money away for Ryan’s college education. Greg was lucky to get out of the marriage with the fancy designer shirt on his back.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">To that day, Rachael had never had a total grasp on how much of her money he had milked. She knew she was complicit by not paying attention. But still. It was not <span class="i">his</span> money to spend.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Once the divorce was final, Rachael used the rest of the money from the sale of the house to buy the dance studio from its owner. She renovated the space and hired more instructors, and the studio doubled its clientele in less than a year. It helped that she was located near a senior-citizen community with most residents only in their midfifties. Part of the studio’s service was planning dance parties for organizations. Rachael had finally hit her stride.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women stared at Rachael. Nina was the first to speak. “Wow, he really took advantage of your family’s money.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh, that’s not all.” Rachael tossed her head back. “He was cheating on me the whole time.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Screams of “What?” “Are you kidding?” “You can’t be serious!” went around the table.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Rachael crossed her arms across her chest. “No, I’m not kidding, and yes, I am serious.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Holy smokes!” Amy broke in. “How did you find out?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“It all came out after the divorce. A few people knew about it, but no one had ever told me. And frankly, I do not care. I had no physical interest in him at all.” She paused. “Probably ever.” She burst out laughing. “Talk about stupid choices.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie chimed in and lifted her glass. “What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger!” The rest followed suit, uttering words of cheer.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">It was now Frankie’s turn to catch the women up on her escapades. She had moved to New York after graduating from the University of Miami. She auditioned for musicals and got a few small parts in Off-Broadway shows, but that and temp work paid very little, forcing her to live with a variety of roommates, two to three people at a time. One summer, Frankie rented a bedroom in a large two-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side. They had divided it up so that Dave and Laura would have the living room as their space, Marilyn would have the other bedroom, and they shared a ridiculously small kitchenette. It wasn’t ideal, but it was doable for the few months she was there.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Finding a suitable place to live was a full-time job. She eventually moved into a duplex with a work associate and stayed for several years until she was able to afford a modest studio apartment in Gramercy Park.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie and Rachael had stayed in touch and met for lunch a couple of times a year, so they were familiar with each other’s horror stories. Rachael was getting impatient and urged Frankie, “Cut to the chase. We want to hear your stories. I <span class="i">know</span> you have a few lulus.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie took a deep breath. “Are you sure you want to hear the gory details?” Nina and Amy urged her on. Frankie confessed that she had been through a boatload of relationships, affairs, heartbreaks, and deceptions. New York. Lots of men. It was easy to meet someone at a bar, club, event, or concert. Learning about someone was another story, especially with most New Yorkers her age coming from all parts of the country and the rest of the world. She often thought it was ironic that someone could be in the biggest city in the country and still feel lonely and isolated. That’s probably why she was eager to have something meaningful with someone. Too bad she had made a lot of lousy choices in her pursuits. Frankie continued, “Then there was the medical intern who had not one but two other girlfriends.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Two?” Amy gasped.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yes, two.” Frankie took a sip of her drink.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“How did you find out?” Amy was curious.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I had spent the night at his apartment. The next morning, he left before me. I opened the door to the linen closet to get a towel.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh sure. You were spying.” Rachael poked her.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“No. Honestly,” Frankie continued. “I was getting a towel and noticed a small container on one of the shelves.” She took a sip of her drink. “It was a diaphragm.” Another sip, waiting for a reaction from her friends.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“A what?” Amy blurted.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina patted her hand. “Oh, honey. It’s one of those contraceptive contraptions that women use so they don’t get pregnant.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I know what a diaphragm is. Duh,” Amy shot back. “I was kidding.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina patted her hand again and turned to Frankie. “So what did you do?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I did what any other red-blooded woman would do. I took it with me and threw it in a dumpster several blocks away.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women were doubled over in hysterics. Frankie continued, “I never said a word to him. I figured he would be squirming enough when she went looking for it.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina was laughing so hard, tears were streaming down her face.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Did he call you?” Rachael tilted her head.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yes, he did.” Frankie played with the small straw in her glass.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Spill, girl!” Amy was almost shouting. “What happened?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I didn’t answer the phone but he left me a voice mail saying how immature it was of me to take someone else’s property.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Amy’s mouth was agape. “He said what?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“You heard me. But, I must say, I got a lot of satisfaction out of that call. He was so pissed. Too bad, too sad. Such a jerk.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“So how did you know he had been seeing two other women?” Amy asked curiously.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“A friend of mine. One could say it was a coincidence, but think about this. New York City has a population of eight million people, and over ten thousand doctors.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina pushed, “Get to the good part!”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“As I was saying, a friend of mine was introduced to him at a hospital function. He was with a woman named Victoria. Well, while they were chitchatting, a woman named Michelle walked up to him and slapped him in the face.” Frankie sat back in her chair with a wry smile.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Wow.” Nina gasped. “Well, at least he got the slap he deserved.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yeah, too bad it wasn’t from me.” Frankie chuckled. “I felt vindicated without having to do anything except dispose of something gross. It’s funny. Odd, I mean. I wasn’t angry. I was stunned. But when I tossed that thing in the garbage, I felt elated just thinking about how he was going to talk his way out of its absence.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“He sounds like a real piece of work,” Nina observed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yes, indeed. I pity his patients. Now he’s a psychiatrist.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women almost spit out their drinks. “Seriously?” Amy barked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Yep.” Frankie nodded. “I feel like I dodged a bullet with that one. And several others, I suppose.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Silence fell across the table.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie’s eyes twinkled. “I have an idea.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Uh-oh,” Amy said.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I know we all hate Internet dating . . .”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina held up her hand. “I am going to stop you right there, girl. There is a <span class="sc">NO DIVING</span> sign at the dating pool.” The women laughed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Seriously. Listen,” Frankie went on. “Let’s make a pact. I know this is probably something we swore we would never do. But”—she took a deep breath—“if none of us have dates for New Year’s Eve by this Thanksgiving, we’ll go on a singles cruise together.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“What?” Nina’s eyes almost bugged out.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Huh?” came from Amy.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Count me in,” Rachael said, jumping at the idea.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Really. What’s the worst that can happen? We’ll have fun, get a tan, and come home with some duty-free perfume,” Frankie assured them.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“That could be fun,” Nina agreed. “It’s only June now, so we have plenty of time to either ruin our lives again with a man or get ourselves into bathing-suit shape.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">A groan went around the table. “OK. So we’ll wear sarongs,” Nina added.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“And cover-ups,” Amy said.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“And big hats,” Frankie suggested.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Let’s not forget the dark sunglasses.” Rachael put her two cents in.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Caribbean?” Frankie asked. “We can meet up in Miami and take one of those four-or-five-day singles cruises. Come on! Like I said, the worst that can happen is we get a tan.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Or tossed in the drink for being too rowdy.” Nina chuckled.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Rachael clapped. “I love it!”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Don’t get too excited there, missy. We’ll keep you on a tight leash,” Nina said.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Ha. Isn’t the whole point to have some fun?” Rachael protested.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Absolutely!” Frankie was pleased with her idea, and her friends were enthusiastic about it, too. “It will be like <span class="i">The Love Boat</span> with eggnog.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">The women reached across the table and grabbed each other’s hands. “Pinky swear!” They locked fingers the same way they had in high school when they set out to accomplish something.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Frankie surveyed the room. “I think our work here is done. Are any of you staying here at this hotel?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’m at my folks’,” Amy replied.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’m at a B and B off Henshaw Drive,” Rachael said.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I’m at the Courtyard,” Nina put in.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Oh good. So am I. I couldn’t get a room here, which is fine. I don’t know if I want to keep running into people I don’t remember,” Frankie said almost apologetically. “Let’s go over to the Courtyard and hang out. I don’t see anyone or anything worth pursuing here.” She giggled.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Splendid idea,” Nina agreed.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Pajama party?” Amy almost begged.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“I have two beds in my room. You can join me, but won’t your mother be upset?” Frankie asked.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“You mean my mother and Mister Charm? Nah. They’re at the club. I’ll send her a text so she won’t worry.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Rachael frowned for a moment. “Can I come and play, too?”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Nina put her arm around Rachael. “Sure thing, babe. I also have an extra bed.”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">In unison, they high-fived each other, grabbed their purses, and headed toward the door when a loud voice came over the speaker. “Let’s all say hello to the famous Nina Hunter!”</div> 
<div class="p-indent">Hoots and applause filled the room.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“Uh-oh. I thought we could make a quick getaway,” Nina said with clenched teeth, feigning a smile. “Hello, everyone!” She made her way up to the podium while the three other women waited near the exit.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">“It’s so nice to see all these familiar faces,” Nina lied, with a big, bright smile. Frankie was stifling a laugh. Then Nina said, “Let’s have a round of applause for the reunion committee. Didn’t they do a great job?” Lots of clapping, whistling, and cheers filled the room. Once the noise subsided, Nina ended her impromptu appearance with, “I trust everyone tunes in on Thursday night for a half hour of laughs and crazy family fun! See you on the boob tube! Enjoy the evening! Be safe!” She gave a wave and stepped away from the microphone as the group gave her the appropriate applause. She hustled toward her friends to make a quick getaway in case other people wanted to talk to her. In spite of her big personality and her love for theater and acting, Nina was basically shy. She said it was her acting skills that helped her deal with people.</div> 
<div class="p-indent">As the four women exited the hotel, Frankie pulled up her Uber app and ordered a car to pick them up. When they got to the Courtyard, they raided the minibars in their rooms, settled in, and made plans for their seafaring adventure.</div></div> 

</body>
</html>
2023-08-28 03:41:11 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-28 03:41:12 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-28 03:41:13 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-28 03:41:14 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:17 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:18 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:19 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:20 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:41:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:41:21 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-28 03:41:42 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-28 03:41:42 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-28 03:41:42 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2d706ff3
