2023-07-22 13:38:47 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-07-22 13:38:47 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-07-22 13:39:15 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-07-22 13:39:15 INFO  - Session id - c64e0eb533848543348d5c1404cf64497a13a2af
2023-07-22 13:39:15 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-07-22 13:39:15 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:18 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-07-22 13:39:18 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-07-22 13:39:18 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:19 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-07-22 13:39:20 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-07-22 13:39:20 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 13:39:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-07-22 13:39:24 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:25 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-07-22 13:39:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:26 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:27 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:28 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-07-22 13:39:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:29 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:30 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:30 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:31 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-07-22 13:39:31 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - bookName: Animal Instinct Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - bookName: Blessed Monsters Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 5
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 13:39:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-07-22 13:39:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-07-22 13:39:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-07-22 13:39:36 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:39:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:39:42 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-07-22 13:40:03 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:40:03 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-07-22 13:40:03 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:40:24 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-07-22 13:40:44 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:40:46 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-07-22 13:40:46 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-07-22 13:40:46 INFO  - randomBookName: Winds Through Time
2023-07-22 13:40:46 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-22 13:40:46 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Winds Through Time'
2023-07-22 13:40:48 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-22 13:40:53 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-22 13:40:53 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:40:53 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:01 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-22 13:41:01 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:41:01 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:02 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-22 13:41:03 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:03 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-07-22 13:41:03 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-07-22 13:41:22 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-07-22 13:41:24 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:24 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-07-22 13:41:24 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:25 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-07-22 13:41:26 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-22 13:41:26 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-22 13:41:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-22 13:41:27 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Winds Through Time</title>
<link href="../styles/9781554886906.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="../styles/page-template.xpgt" rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:aac79b96-6b76-4e30-ac55-ab1743325063" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><a id="page_1"></a><a id="ch01"></a><em>The Crosscut</em></h2>
<p class="author1"><em>by Lynne Bowen</em></p>
<p class="indent">“What good will it do you to work in the mine, Jamie? Will you tell me that? You’ll come home dirty and wet every working day of your life and one day there’ll be a cave-in or an explosion and that will be the end of you.”</p>
<p class="indent">I’d been wanting to quit school and work in the Esplanade Mine in Nanaimo ever since I was twelve years old, but whenever I brought it up, my mother always got very upset.</p>
<p class="indent">In British Columbia you’re not supposed to work underground in a coal mine until you’re sixteen. But if your family needs the money, the boss of the mine will sometimes let you work even though you’re not old enough.</p>
<p class="indent">It didn’t do me any good to remind my mother that Pa worked in the mine and nothing had happened to <a id="page_2"></a>him. I tried to tell her how useful it would be to have the extra money, but she wouldn’t listen. Once I even said that being a miner would make a man out of me, but that just made her turn away in tears.</p>
<p class="indent">“The mines have made men out of too many members of this family already—your grandfather, your father, your Uncle Thomas, your poor dead cousin Jack. You’ll stay in school, lad, and finish your grade twelve. Then you’ll get a job in Mr. Mayer’s dry goods store. You’ll wear a clean white collar and a necktie and I won’t have to worry every time you go to work that you won’t be coming back at the end of the day.”</p>
<p class="indent">Mother never said any of this when Pa was around, of course. She didn’t want him to know how much she worried, but I’m pretty sure he knew anyway. So I stayed in school. But on my fourteenth birthday—May 1, 1887—Pa told me he was going to show me what it was like down in the mine.</p>
<p class="indent">It was lucky that my birthday was on a Sunday. Sunday is a day off for most miners, so I wouldn’t be in anyone’s way. Sunday is also when my mother goes to church. Pa and I waited until she’d left so she wouldn’t know what we were going to do. Then he filled two little teapot lamps with fish oil, hooked them onto our caps and off we went.</p>
<p class="indent">The Esplanade Mine is only four blocks down Milton Street from our house. When we got to the pithead there was a Sunday crew waiting to go down too, but when the cage came to the surface, we all had to <a id="page_3"></a>wait while a man led two mine horses off.</p>
<p class="indent">The horses were going to the company farm for a rest. As soon as they realized they were above ground, they tossed their heads and whinnied. The man let their halters go and they started to run and kick their heels in the air just like colts do.</p>
<p class="indent">As we got in the cage I kept thinking about how glad those horses were to be above ground, but then the gates crashed closed and we dropped so fast it drove the horses from my mind until we reached shaft bottom and I got a whiff of fresh manure.</p>
<p class="indent">We walked off the cage into a brightly lit cavern carved out of the coal and rock. The smell came from the stables where horses and mules were resting in their stalls.</p>
<p class="indent">“I think it’s cruel to keep the animals underground,” I said.</p>
<p class="indent">“Naw,” Pa said, “they lead a good life. They get treated better than the men do. C’mon. We’re gonna miss the locie.”</p>
<p class="indent">A string of empty coal cars stood waiting behind the smallest “locie” I’d ever seen. We scrambled into one of the cars along with the Sunday crew and the little engine pulled us into Number One level. The roof was a lot lower there and the only lights were the one on the engine and the lamps we had lit on our caps.</p>
<p class="indent">After a while Pa hollered to the driver to stop and we got out. The locie pulled away and we were alone in the Sunday silence. Our lamps cast small pools of light and <a id="page_4"></a>a strong breeze swept our faces.</p>
<p class="indent">“How come I can feel the wind down here?” I asked.</p>
<p class="indent">“That’s not wind, son. That’s the ventilation system. The big fan at the pithead pulls air through the mine to sweep away the explosive gas. It’s because of that fan that this new mine is such a safe place to work.”</p>
<p class="indent">“Does it ever blow your lamp out?” I asked.</p>
<p class="indent">“Yup. Does it quite often. But it’s not so bad being in the dark. Let’s go into this crosscut I’ve been working on and you can see what it’s like.” He pushed back a curtain and turned into a side tunnel. Pit props spaced every few feet lined each side of the tunnel and held up the roof timbers. The props looked like the ribs of a skeleton. We walked deeper into the tunnel until we reached the coal face at the end.</p>
<p class="indent">“Sit down here against the rib,” Pa said as he blew our lamps out. We slid our backs down the side of the tunnel between two props and sat on the floor. I couldn’t see anything, not even my hand when I held it up in front of my face. It was very dark and very, very quiet.</p>
<p class="indent">But soon I began to hear things: the trickle of water, the tumble of a rock or a piece of coal, the scrabble of tiny feet and then a strange creaking sound.</p>
<p class="indent">“What’s that?” I whispered.</p>
<p class="indent">“Do you mean the rats or the mine settling?” Pa asked. ‘The mine’s a living thing in more ways than one.” He laughed. “Why are you whispering? Are you afraid?”</p>
<p class="indent">“No, no, of course not,” I said. And I really wasn’t. <a id="page_5"></a>I was with my pa and everything was all right. The darkness was nice, thick and soft like the velvet I’d seen in the dry goods store.</p>
<p class="indent">“When can I work in the mine, Pa?”, I asked.</p>
<p class="indent">“When you’re sixteen.”</p>
<p class="indent">“What if Mother wants me to stay in school?” I said.</p>
<p class="indent">“We’ll worry about that when the time comes.”</p>
<p class="indent">“I could be your backhand. We’d make a great team.”</p>
<p class="indent">“When you’re old enough,” he repeated. “Until then I’ve got Ah Ling.”</p>
<p class="indent">“You work with a Chinaman?” I gasped.</p>
<p class="indent">“Chinaman is a rude word, Jamie.” Pa sounded mad. “I don’t want to hear you say it again. Ah Ling happens to be a very good backhand. He watches me set the shot that blasts the coal loose and then we both shovel it into the cars. We can dig a lot of coal working together like that.”</p>
<p class="indent">I knew that there were many Chinese men living in Nanaimo, but I’d never had much to do with them. Sometimes after school my friends and I would see them walking back to Chinatown with their pigtails and straw hats. They’d walk in single file and we’d yell, “Single file. Monkey style.”</p>
<p class="indent">“But what will happen to Ah Ling when I’m old enough to be your backhand, Pa?” I asked.</p>
<p class="indent">“By then, he’ll be able to set his own shots,” Pa said. ‘That’s if the other miners ever let him.”</p>
<p class="indent">“Why wouldn’t they let him?”</p>
<p class="indent">“Most of the men say the Chinese are a danger in <a id="page_6"></a>the mines because they can’t read English,” Pa said, “but if you ask me, that’s not the real reason. They don’t like the Chinese because they’ll work for half the money a white miner gets. They think the Chinese miners will soon have all the jobs.”</p>
<p class="indent">When we got home that Sunday I asked Mother if she knew Ah Ling. “Of course not Jamie. Those people like to keep to themselves. They don’t understand us and we don’t understand them and as far as I’m concerned that’s the way it should be.”</p>
<p class="indent">That night as I lay in my bed in the darkness, I didn’t think about Ah Ling. I was too busy remembering how it had been in the crosscut with my dad, the two of us together, talking in the dark and the quiet.</p>
<p class="indent">Two days later, everything changed. On the 3rd of May 1887, Pa was in the mine working the evening shift. At five minutes to six, just as Mother was tying on a clean apron to serve my supper, we felt a dull thump under our feet. Then we heard the mine whistle blowing and blowing and blowing. On normal days it sounds only once at the beginning of each shift, but this time it went on and on. Mother’s face lost all its colour. We both knew what the whistle blasts meant.</p>
<p class="indent">There’d been an explosion in the Esplanade Mine. Mother dragged me out of the house and we ran down Milton Street, stumbling on the stones, bumping into our neighbours. Everyone knew the news would be bad, but still they hoped that their fathers and sons would somehow have survived.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_7"></a>As off-duty miners streamed by us pulling on their caps and lighting their lamps, hundreds of women, children and old men gathered near the pithead. None of us said a word. We could do nothing but wait. Now and then the cry of a baby mingled with the sputter of machinery or the shout of the pithead boss, but the watchers stood silent.</p>
<p class="indent">Fire had destroyed the fan leaving only a pile of twisted metal. We waited and watched for several hours while the rescuers set up a makeshift ventilation system and cleared the shaft so the cage could operate again. Then the bodies, each one on a stretcher, started to arrive at the surface. For most of the watchers the waiting ended shortly afterward, but for some of us it went on and on.</p>
<p class="indent">Hour after hour, then day after day, Mother and I took turns waiting by the pithead. Each time the cage rose, the gates would crash open and someone would call out the name of the dead man on the stretcher.</p>
<p class="indent">Then on Sunday, May 8th, one of the rescuers told us that thirty-five men—ten Chinese and twenty-five whites—had been found in a crosscut off Number One level. They had survived the explosion and had built a barricade to protect themselves from the after-damp. All mining families know that after an explosion this deadly gas, carbon monoxide mixed with mine air, seeps relentlessly through the mine. A barricade will hold back the gas, but sooner or later, unless help arrives, the good air behind it will be used up.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_8"></a>The rescuers hadn’t reached the thirty-five men in time. When the coal company put up a list of names of the dead, Mother said that since I was probably going to be the man of the house from now on, I should be the one to go and look at it. Pa’s name was near the top. When I searched for Ah Ling’s name, all I found was “Chinamen 107, 128, 136, 90, 93....”</p>
<p class="indent">That night I couldn’t sleep. I lay awake in the dark and thought about the crosscut off Number One level. I tried to imagine what it had been like for my father and the other men. How long had the oil in their lamps lasted? What was it like to be in the dark behind that barricade knowing they were using up the good air?</p>
<p class="indent">When the news went out across the country that 148 men had died in that explosion, many people sent money. Mother got a widow’s allowance, but she didn’t get any money for me because I was too old. After that, she seemed to forget how important it was for me to stay in school. She went to see the boss of the mine. He said when the mine opened again he would give me a job above ground on the picking tables.</p>
<p class="indent">By this time people were saying that the Chinese had caused the explosion. You couldn’t get away from the talk. I went to a meeting at Craven’s Half-Way Hotel to hear what the miners had to say.</p>
<p class="indent">Just about everyone there was against the Chinese, except one man who said they were the safest workers in the mine. But another man demanded a law to keep them from going underground. The boss said there was <a id="page_9"></a>no reason to believe that any Chinese had anything to do with the explosion, but he finally agreed to take them out of the mine. He tried to make it up to them by giving them jobs on the picking tables and that’s how I met Wan Yung.</p>
<p class="indent">We were working side by side looking for rocks among the chunks of coal that went by us on the conveyor belt, and we started trying to talk to each other. What came out was pretty funny sometimes, but we got so we could understand. He was sixteen and he was saving money to go back to China some day and buy his own land.</p>
<p class="indent">When I said it was too bad he couldn’t work underground and make more money, he didn’t really answer. Instead he asked me if I’d ever seen how the mules and horses kicked up their heels with joy when they came out of the cage to go to the company farm. “All creature like sunshine,” he said. “Wan Yung like sunshine also. Not like dark.”</p>
<p class="indent">The dark didn’t bother me. When I was finally old enough to go down the mine, Mother and I had a big argument. I said that since I was the man of the house and since we weren’t making ends meet, I was going down the mine. Ever since Pa died Mother gives in a lot easier about everything. I got a job driving a horse underground.</p>
<p class="indent">My horse’s name is Queenie. I hitch her to a loaded coal car and get her moving up the slope by talking tough to her. “Come on now Queenie, I’m not taking <a id="page_10"></a>any of your guff.” She leans into the slope and off we go.</p>
<p class="indent">Things had been going pretty well until the day when the flame on my lamp blew out. Suddenly the darkness was all about me and I couldn’t get a deep breath. I sat down on the rails and hugged myself trying not to think about Pa.</p>
<p class="indent">Queenie whickered at me. Her harness rattled as she shook her head and waited for me to tell her what to do, but I couldn’t move. The mine creaked and settled. The wheels on the car squealed as they rolled backward a little.</p>
<p class="indent">Then Queenie took over. The coal car started to move forward. All I had to do was hold on to the back of it and go along for the ride. Queenie moved faster and faster until I was running to keep up. It was as if she could see in the dark. After a few minutes I started to hear men’s voices and see the flicker of lamps.</p>
<p class="indent">Queenie and I had only one ambition: to get to shaft bottom. Once she was safely back in her brightly-lit stall, I climbed aboard the cage for the last time and headed up toward the sunshine.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-22 13:41:27 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-22 13:41:28 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-07-22 13:41:29 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-07-22 13:41:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:34 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:35 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:41:37 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:41:37 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-07-22 13:41:58 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-22 13:41:58 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@39a8386b
