2023-08-06 12:24:48 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-08-06 12:24:48 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-06 12:25:16 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-06 12:25:16 INFO  - Session id - ced4a376fbdc2c46f802b651ae321654b059b384
2023-08-06 12:25:16 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-06 12:25:16 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:18 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-06 12:25:19 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-06 12:25:19 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:19 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-06 12:25:21 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-06 12:25:21 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:23 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:25:23 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-06 12:25:26 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:27 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-06 12:25:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:29 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:32 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-06 12:25:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:37 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-08-06 12:25:37 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: Snow Crash Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: The Mystery of Mrs. Christie Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: Apples Never Fall Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: Too Much and Never Enough Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: The Critique of Practical Reason Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:25:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-08-06 12:25:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:25:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-06 12:25:41 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:25:47 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:25:48 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-06 12:26:09 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:26:10 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-06 12:26:10 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:26:32 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-06 12:26:52 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:26:54 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-06 12:26:54 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-08-06 12:26:54 INFO  - randomBookName: After Hopper
2023-08-06 12:26:55 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-06 12:26:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'After Hopper'
2023-08-06 12:26:58 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-06 12:27:03 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-06 12:27:04 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:27:05 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:12 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-06 12:27:13 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:27:14 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:14 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-06 12:27:15 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:16 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-06 12:27:16 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-06 12:27:38 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-08-06 12:27:39 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-06 12:27:39 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-06 12:27:40 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-06 12:27:41 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="Generator" content="Atlantis Word Processor 3.3.3.1" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
<title></title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p0"><span class="t2">After Hopper</span></p>
<p class="p0">By Georgette Gouveia</p>
<p class="p2">The dress was a giveaway. A light wool, short-sleeved, royal blue affair, it was already too warm for early spring, and it seared and itched her skin, molding her already perspired foundation garments to her flesh and tempting her mightily to scratch, which she would not do as she sat ramrod straight on the New York Central Railroad train that rattled its way from Yonkers to Grand Central Terminal.</p>
<p class="p2">“Remember: Cool as a cucumber on the outside no matter what’s roiling the inside,” Mama always advised. She just hoped she would not be betrayed by disks of perspiration on her armpits. She had to make that ten-cent jar of cream deodorant last and last, so she used it as sparingly as possible, just as she had taken up the hem of Aunt Violet’s old blue dress and cinched the waist to conform to the 1940s’ new, smarter office-girl silhouette, adding a black leather clutch and black leather pumps she found, barely used, at the Nepperhan Avenue thrift shop.</p>
<p class="p2">All that might change now that she had a chance at her first real job, a secretarial one for a business in Manhattan. She had been recommended for the position by Mrs. Covington, her former high school English teacher, who had taken a shine to her, giving her little extras and treats—a book of Emily Dickinson’s poetry, a vial of Arpège perfume. Once she had even taken her and her mother to see <span class="t6">Wuthering Heights</span> at the Astor Theater and then to Schrafft’s for dinner in the dining room, which had real linen tablecloths.</p>
<p class="p2">“I see something in your daughter,” Mrs. Covington had told her mother, Ruth, “something beyond the modern teenage girl of today. She has a fine mind and the fineness of character to go with it. If war comes, and I’m sure it will, there’s going to be opportunity for young women like never before. Her excellence in English class already sets her apart. A secretary must excel at more than typing and dictation. She must have excellent communication skills. Still, she must keep up her typing and her shorthand. That will get her foot in the door.”</p>
<p class="p2">Afterward, Mrs. Covington bought them each small keepsake boxes of French chocolate mints. What with the movie of a book she had already read five times and the dinner, which featured pinkish lamb chops and mint jelly, with creamed cauliflower and fried eggplant, and the souvenirs as well, she imagined it might just have been the best day of her life.</p>
<p class="p2">Until she received the call from Mrs. Covington, who kept in touch with her after she graduated high school, to say that she had spoken to a friend, a Mrs. Theiwacher, who ran the office of an engineering company on the East Side that was looking for a secretary for the big boss. If she met with Mrs. Theiwacher’s approval, the job would be hers.</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I just gotta get this job, </span>she thought as she smoothed her dress—drying the palms of her hands in the process—before entering the brownstone in the mid-60s. The building both disarmed and unnerved her. It would, she thought, be less intimidating to work in a place that seemed more like a home than an office. On the other hand, what kind of business was run from a townhouse rather than from one of the newish skyscrapers farther downtown?</p>
<p class="p2">Mrs. Theiwacher’s presence didn’t allow for such rumination. She was a no-nonsense woman of about forty who smelled faintly of gardenias, even if the one pinned to her navy polka dot dress was artificial. Her short hair was parted on the side, climbing in that Mary Astor way, and her navy and white spectator pumps were most fashionable, making the young job candidate acutely aware of how out-of-season her royal blue dress really was.</p>
<p class="p2">But when Mrs. Theiwacher motioned for her to sit down and start typing a manuscript, she did not hesitate, setting her fingers to flying over the Underwood as she imagined Sergei Rachmaninoff’s did over his Steinway when she and Mama listened to him on the radio. <span class="t6">Cool as a cucumber, I remember—</span>one hundred twenty immaculately typed words per minute. Her dictation was also word-for-word perfect.</p>
<p class="p2">“You understand, Miss D’Angelo, that this job requires the utmost sensitivity and discretion,” Mrs. Theiwacher said. “I have it on Mrs. Covington’s say-so that you are a young woman of impeccable character, a necessity in any job but especially in one of this nature.”</p>
<p class="p2">She didn’t ask what that nature was. In truth, she didn’t care. All she wanted was to succeed and have some money so that she and Mama could have some nice things for once and not just the necessities they hesitated over. She wanted to be able to go to the drugstore and buy a jar of deodorant and not worry if she were going to use more than a drop, and maybe stop at its soda fountain and have a vanilla milkshake, or even buy Mama some flowers. So, all she said in reply was “Oh, yes, ma’am. I’m sure you wouldn’t want your building projects to get out, this being an engineering firm and all. I mean, does Macy’s tell Gimbel’s?”</p>
<p class="p2">Okay, that was a misstep, she thought. <span class="t6">Don’t try to make familiar jokes about rival department stores, </span>she corrected herself. But Mrs. Theiwacher’s half-smile suggested that she hadn’t made a mistake for in the next moment she said, “Time to meet the boss.”</p>
<p class="p2">The boss, or Dr. O as everyone called him, reminded her of what a college professor would have been like had she been lucky enough to go to college. He was tall and reed-thin in a light tweed suit that seemed to swallow him up and offset a long neck, an Adam’s apple and the finest bone structure she had ever seen. Immediately, she couldn’t help but wonder if Mrs. Theiwacher and all the ladies in the office had a crush on him as she was already half in love with him herself. She could just hear Mama now: “Poor boy. Needs fattening up.” This “poor boy” was coolly appraising her, though not in any malicious way.</p>
<p class="p2">“Well, Miss D’Angelo, you come highly recommended and have already passed the Mrs. Theiwacher test, which is good enough for me. All I can say is that in a most challenging time, our work is vital. While it’s hard, requiring long hours, we also know the thrill of creativity and achievement, which is where President Franklin Delano Roosevelt says happiness lies. If you’re willing to put your nose to the grindstone, you, too, will find it rewarding in more ways than one. Now how does that sound?”</p>
<p class="p2">Sound? Did she have the job? Guess so. “It sounds,” she said, “wonderful.”</p>
<p class="p2">That night, she walked down Lexington Avenue to Grand Central, floating on air. New York was a riot of blossoms in spring—white apple, purple plum and, especially, pink and white cherry—the fallen petals crusting the roots of the trees, which were surrounded by low, square, wrought-iron borders on the side streets and vied with ground-floor galleries and shopfronts for the attention of passers-by, who barely seemed to notice. In those days, despite the war, it always seemed to be spring, she thought. Only later did she realize that it was often winter.</p>
<p class="p2">She alighted only long enough to buy Mama some flowers and those Russell Stover French chocolate mints—not the hard ones with the white peppermint centers but the creamy, chocolate ones—that Mama loved yet always denied herself. Not anymore.</p>
<p class="p2">“Would you look at this?” Mama said disapprovingly but secretly pleased. “She hasn’t even gotten her first paycheck and already it’s spent on luxuries.”</p>
<p class="p2">But Mama must’ve anticipated the result of the interview for she had spent what seemed like all her ration coupons to make roast chicken with potatoes and for dessert the moistest chocolate cake with chocolate icing—her daughter’s favorite.</p>
<p class="p2">“Well, what’s the job like? What are they like? What’s he like?”</p>
<p class="p2">Here, she knew, her conversations with her mother were doomed to frustration, for it became clear to her over time that there wasn’t much to say—deliberately so. Everyone with the exception of Dr. O was Mr., Mrs., or Miss this or that, and that’s the way they liked it. There was little in the way of fraternizing, no after-work drinks or dinners, no scent of office romances. What passed for sexual tension then was miniscule and thus all the more thrilling for its subtlety. A glance or a sigh as the big boss passed by, the rustle of a hemline or a curtain from a fan or the summer breeze through an open window, the faint trace of perspiration on a suit or a dress.</p>
<p class="p2">About the most familiar relationship in the office, it became clear as summer deepened, was that of herself to the big boss. From the day he asked her to get him a cruller and coffee—”and get something for yourself,” he added—and she began bringing him his coffee and crullers on the way in to work every morning, they were Dr. O and Miss D, perfectly in sync, so much so that inevitably some office gossip arose, causing her to turn red and Mrs. Theiwacher to set the rumormonger straight. There was nothing for anyone to talk about. And if there were, would Mrs. O have been so pleasant to her on those occasions when she dropped by the office?</p>
<p class="p2">Besides, there was soon a rival for Dr. O in the romantic crush department, a young man named Clive, who turned up one day just as they were about to engage in a regular ritual.</p>
<p class="p2">“Miss D, do you have the sealing wax?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Coming right up, Dr. O.”</p>
<p class="p2">He would roll up the blueprints tightly, place them in a tube and drip the sealing wax to secure it himself, lest she get burned, then hand the package off to one of the senior members of the firm for delivery. But all that changed this day as Dr. O announced that she would be delivering the blueprints and Clive, a new addition to the firm from Washington, D.C., would escort her on the delivery.</p>
<p class="p2">She didn’t for the life of her understand why she needed an escort when she was only walking a few blocks away to drop off the blueprints at another brownstone. But she was not about to raise any objections, especially as Clive McAdams was, well, so manly—tall, dark and handsome like something out of a movie or a newspaper comic strip—and such good company. Walking beside him, her virginal self was aware for the first time of what a man really was—how much bigger they were than women and how much stronger they smelled and how much they were willing to do to win a woman’s favor. As much as she loved Mama, the love of her life, there was no one quite so entertaining as Clive.</p>
<p class="p2">“Like a stick of gum?” he’d invariably ask on these walks.</p>
<p class="p2">“No thank you,” she’d say primly. “Dr. O doesn’t approve of gum-chewing.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And do we always do precisely what Dr. O wants, even when he’s not around?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Precisely,” she said, turning up her nose with a laugh. “You know, Mr. McAdams, I really don’t need your help. I’m perfectly capable of delivering these blueprints myself since I’m the one doing all the heavy lifting here.” And indeed, she walked a little taller with an extra bounce in her step as she carried the blue tube under one arm and her clutch under the other. Thanks to her job, she now had the wardrobe to match that confidence as well as treats for Mama, money to fix up their apartment and savings for their future.</p>
<p class="p2">“Well, you wouldn’t want me to lose my job when I’ve just arrived, would you?” He walked along with his hands in his pockets in that way of American men, as if he didn’t have a care in the world, as if it were his oyster, which she supposed it was.</p>
<p class="p2">“No, I guess not,” she said.</p>
<p class="p2">“Besides, maybe I’m along for protection. Or maybe you’re the one protecting me.”</p>
<p class="p2">She laughed at that, even as she wondered why he wasn’t in uniform like all the other young, able-bodied men who were missing from that New York summer.</p>
<p class="p2">“He must have some condition, his heart or something,” her mother said as she poured her coffee later that night. “I’m sure Dr. O wouldn’t hire anyone who was less than worthy.”</p>
<p class="p2">Already, Dr. O was a god among men to her mother, responsible for everything from the food on their table to her daughter’s happiness. But what did they know of him or Clive or anyone?</p>
<p class="p2">Just how little they knew became apparent on another blueprint delivery day. They were walking along as usual when suddenly Clive quickened his pace and, taking her by the elbow, nudged her into a cab.</p>
<p class="p2">“Mr. McAdams, what’s the meaning of this?” she said.</p>
<p class="p2">“Look, fella, I don’t want any trouble,” the cabbie said.</p>
<p class="p2">“No trouble. It’s just that I sensed we were being followed, and I wanted to give whoever was doing it the slip. Driver, I want you to take us around the block to the nearest pay phone and wait while I call our office.”</p>
<p class="p2">They did just that before Clive delivered the blueprints to yet another address, then asked the driver to take them to Grand Central. “I think you’ve had enough excitement for one day,” Clive told her. “Time to get you home.”</p>
<p class="p2">They rode in silence, broken only when Clive insisted on escorting her to the train.</p>
<p class="p2">“I don’t work for an engineering firm, do I, and you’re not some guy who was classified 4-F, are you?’</p>
<p class="p2">“I think under the circumstances we should call each other by our first names from now on, don’t you?” was all he said by way of explanation.</p>
<p class="p2">“Vicky,” she said, numb. “Short for Victoria.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’ll see you tomorrow, Vicky,” he said, standing there watching her at a window seat as the train pulled away.</p>
<p class="p2">That night was the first night she didn’t come home floating on air.</p>
<p class="p2">“What’s the matter?” her mother said. “This is the first time I’ve seen you like this in a long while. Did something happen at work? I can’t imagine something happening when you work for that wonderful Dr. O, who has graced us with so much.”</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">That wonderful Dr. O:</span> How could Vicky tell her that she felt as if she had just wandered into one of those fairy tales, like “Beauty and the Beast,” where everything is great until it isn’t?</p>
<p class="p2">“We just had a little trouble with one of our deliveries,” she said, trying to brighten.</p>
<p class="p2">“But everything is all right now, isn’t it?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Everything is just fine, Mama. There’s nothing for you to worry about. I’m just tired is all.”</p>
<p class="p2">But everything was not fine nor would it ever be again, Vicky sensed. And yet, she would have to go on pretending it was, for her sake and her mother’s.</p>
<p class="p2">After that, the deliveries changed. Clive or others would make them. Sometimes, he and Vicky would take the blueprints by cab to another part of town. But she now took less pleasure in this and in bringing Dr. O his morning cruller and coffee.</p>
<p class="p2">“Look, I know you’re sore at me and the boss, and I don’t want you to be,” Clive said during their now rare ventures together. “It’s just that in our business, other people would pay a lot for these designs so we have to be careful.”</p>
<p class="p2">“And the stupid little secretary is too dumb to know about it, right?”</p>
<p class="p2">“That’s not it at all. It’s just that Dr. O doesn’t want you to get hurt. I don’t want you to get hurt.”</p>
<p class="p2">He looked out the window then just as she looked at him. It was the first time she had noticed he had a cleft in his chin.</p>
<p class="p2">“Look, after we drop this off, could we go somewhere, Schrafft’s maybe or Horn &amp; Hardart, just the two of us and talk? There’s a little gallery near there. I’d like to show you something.”</p>
<p class="p2">“You better make sure, mister, that what you’re showing her is artwork and that all you’re offering is coffee,” the cab driver butted in.</p>
<p class="p2">“You keep quiet,” Clive said. “This is strictly legit.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Don’t worry, driver,” she said. “I can take care of myself.”</p>
<p class="p2"><span class="t6">I can take care of myself,</span> she thought, marveling as it occurred to her for the first time. She was not some little girl anymore or even just her mother’s daughter or Mrs. Covington’s protégé. She was Victoria D’Angelo, secretary to an important man in an important firm with an important mission—important enough to be escorted by someone who had fallen in love with her as she had fallen in love with him.</p>
<p class="p2">True to his word, they went to a small, white gallery that contained a few new pictures by Edward Hopper. One, “Office at Night,” showed a woman in a tight blue dress at a filing cabinet looking at her older male boss, who was fixated on his paperwork. Is that how Clive saw her and Dr. O?</p>
<p class="p2">“What’s so fascinating is the way the light, the streetlight, slices through the room, framing the file cabinet. The shade billows lightly in the night breeze. It’s both real and unreal,” Clive said, marveling.</p>
<p class="p2">“Like any office,” she said, “or an office as theater.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Yes,” he said, their minds connecting.</p>
<p class="p2">Afterward, over coffee, she said, “You have a real gift for this, Clive.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I minored in art history in college. Art history was not something the men in my family did. They went into the military, got jobs with the government, married the right Washington hostesses.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Oh,” she said, “I see.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Do you? Because I sure don’t.”</p>
<p class="p2">Afterward, they walked to Grand Central, slowly, silently. It had been a terrific, terrible day—uplifting and deflating. Across the street, the top of the Chrysler Building gleamed diamond-hard in the twilight, only they couldn’t see it.</p>
<p class="p2">“It’s strange, isn’t it?” Clive said at last. “You can only really appreciate the skyscrapers when you’re at a distance.”</p>
<p class="p2">On the platform, they kissed. The PA system announced the imminent departure of a train bound for Yonkers—her train.</p>
<p class="p2">“Vicky, I’m headed back to Washington tonight before shipping out. Maybe, after the war…”</p>
<p class="p2">“After the war, a Washington debutante will be waiting,” she said with a sad smile. “Goodbye, Clive. Have a good life. May God go with you.”</p>
<p class="p2">She cried all the way home, but when she entered the house, she was dry-eyed as she presented the exhibit catalog to her mother and said, “Now what’s for supper?”</p>
<p class="p2">Nor did she bat an eye the next day when Dr. O told her Clive had been reassigned, though she reeled ever so slightly with his next announcement: The office would be closing and its operation shifting location to New Mexico. Their work in Manhattan was done, and her time in engineering, over.</p>
<p class="p2">“I’ve put in a word for you with an architectural firm in midtown,” Dr. O said, “one offering a much higher salary. You can start in a couple of weeks if you like. You deserve it.”</p>
<p class="p2">Dr. O braced her then but at arms’ length. “You have exemplified the highest standards of this office.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Dr. O” was all she said as she thought of Clive kissing her.</p>
<p class="p2">“I will ask only one more thing of you, if I may: In the future, you may hear things about me that may not jibe with what you saw and heard and thought and felt in this office. I ask only that you remember me fondly.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Oh, Dr. O, how could I think of you any other way? You have been the father I never knew. Thank you and God speed.”</p>
<p class="p2">Some years later, she would watch in astonishment as the fruits of those blueprints mushroomed far away in the cities of Japan and later still as the man she brought coffee and crullers—Robert Oppenheimer, father of the atom bomb—decried those fruits and was accused of being a communist.</p>
<p class="p2">By then, Clive was long dead, having died in Okinawa, a coworker kindly, or not so kindly, letting her know weeks after it happened. She thought of his parents then, the people who would surely have disapproved of her as not being their kind, now deprived of any kind and any grandchildren forever. She took no pleasure in that, recognizing only that life had come full circle and that no one is immune from that or from loss.</p>
<p class="p2">She herself would experience a profound sense of both when her mother died of the effects of her dementia.</p>
<p class="p2">“I don’t remember who you are,” her mother would say, “I’m sorry.”</p>
<p class="p2">“It’s okay,” she always replied, smiling as she changed and fed her, “because I will remember you.”</p>
<p class="p2">She remembered them all every day but especially in spring or whenever she rode the train or saw the Chrysler building in the evening or gazed at the framed print of “Office at Night” that hung in her home office, along with diplomas from New York University, where she earned her PhD in art history and where she taught for forty years.</p>
<p class="p2">In the print, the woman turned. The man stared intently at his papers. The shade billowed. The streetlight framed the cabinet. It always would.</p>
<p class="p2">She remembered it and them fondly—no, more than fondly, with love. She always would.</p>
<p class="p2"> </p>
<p class="p4">THE END</p>
<p class="p2"> </p>
</body>
</html>
2023-08-06 12:27:41 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-06 12:27:41 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-06 12:27:42 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-06 12:27:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:46 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:47 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:48 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:27:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:27:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:27:51 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:28:11 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:28:11 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-06 12:28:11 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@3bab3336
