2023-08-06 12:56:23 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-08-06 12:56:23 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-06 12:56:51 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-06 12:56:51 INFO  - Session id - 01ba7b2072fb8237c55a3cccc1fce1fe4b0bc3c7
2023-08-06 12:56:51 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-06 12:56:51 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:56:54 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-06 12:56:55 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-06 12:56:55 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:56:56 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-06 12:56:58 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-06 12:56:58 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:01 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:57:01 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-06 12:57:05 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:06 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-06 12:57:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:08 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:09 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:12 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-06 12:57:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:14 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:15 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:16 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:18 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-08-06 12:57:18 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - bookName: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: A Signature Performance by Elijah Wood Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - bookName: Animal Instinct Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - bookName: The Will to Change Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 5
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:57:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-08-06 12:57:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-06 12:57:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-06 12:57:23 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:57:31 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:57:32 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-06 12:57:54 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:57:55 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-06 12:57:55 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:58:18 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-06 12:58:39 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:58:41 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-06 12:58:41 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-08-06 12:58:41 INFO  - randomBookName: Cold War Resistance
2023-08-06 12:58:42 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-06 12:58:43 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Cold War Resistance'
2023-08-06 12:58:47 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-06 12:58:50 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-06 12:58:52 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:58:53 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:03 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-06 12:59:05 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:59:06 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:07 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-06 12:59:08 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:09 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-06 12:59:09 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-06 12:59:36 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-06 12:59:37 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:38 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-08-06 12:59:38 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:39 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-08-06 12:59:40 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-06 12:59:40 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-06 12:59:42 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-06 12:59:43 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="unpLeft_epub3.css" />
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body>
    <section id="intro" class="chapter" aria-labelledby="headerintro01" epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction">
      <header id="headerintro01">
        <h1 class="ct"><span id="pviii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="viii" class="page"></span><span id="p1" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="1" class="page"></span><a class="xref" href="unp-landas-0005.xhtml#toc">Introduction</a></h1>
      </header>
      <p class="pf">The demon was out there. Lurking. Shifting. For months, reports from across the globe circulated warnings. What started as a trickle grew into a stream. A new variation of an old enemy emerged from the prokaryotic kingdom, bearing its microbial teeth and rabid stare, only to recede into the shadows. It was <i>Escherichia coli</i> (<i>E. coli</i>) like the world had never seen. Once it surfaced, scientists the world over hoped to never see it again. They remained on alert now, monitoring the global flow of microbes. China was ground zero with its live animal wet markets, spotty regulation, and insatiable carnivory. It was also half the world away.</p>
      <p>Then a woman walked into a Pennsylvania hospital, and everything changed. An innocuous visit. Only it wasn’t. Her appearance at an unidentified facility—let’s call it St. Elsewhere—in April 2016 kicked off a chain of events that would culminate in a rapid stream of doomsday news articles. This woman—let’s call her Jane—caught a bug, something she could not quite shake. Her stomach may have felt as if it was cramping. Maybe she suffered from frequent or uncomfortable urination or a combination of both. A cloudy discharge would not have been out of the ordinary. Maybe she even had a low-grade fever. While general enough, her symptoms would have tipped doctors off to a few possible diagnoses. Chances are Jane had a urinary tract infection (<span class="sm">UTI</span>).</p>
      <p>A condition common enough to be almost routine, <span class="sm">UTI</span>s occur when <i>E. coli</i> finds its way into the reproductive tracts of women. It is the second most common infection in adults, accounting for an average 8.1 million visits to the doctor each year. For various reasons, men are less susceptible to infection, though not immune by any means.</p>
      <p><span id="p2" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="2" class="page"></span>Jane’s health care providers probably prescribed <span class="sm">Z</span>-<span class="sm">PAK</span> (six tablets of azithromycin) on the spot and sent her on her way. At this point, only a select few people knew the truth. The public record does not disclose who the woman was or even in what part of Pennsylvania the incident occurred. It’s the clearest indication of the public health officials’ alarm at the germ’s appearance.</p>
      <p>The doctors at St. Elsewhere took the urine sample and sent it to the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Silver Spring, Maryland. They did so not on a hunch but rather by design. Jane had tested positive for bacteria producing extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (<span class="sm">ESBL</span>), a form of antibiotic resistance that destroys certain types of antibiotics—in particular, penicillins, cephalosporins, and monobactams.</p>
      <p>Spotting the case involved a degree of luck. The facility happened to be a military outpatient center. A normal hospital would not have forwarded the sample. It would have stayed put for the world to miss.</p>
      <p>On May 12 Dr. Kurt Schaecher sat in his laboratory at Walter Reed, carrying out routine tests on urine samples collected from military hospitals around the country such as the one Jane had visited. Earlier that month, researchers at the institute began testing <span class="sm">ESBL</span>-positive samples for colistin resistance. It was part of a deliberate program to monitor whether bacteria with the gene that made them immune to the antibiotic had reached the United States. Since it first emerged in China in November 2015, the specific strain of <i>E. coli</i> had not appeared, but scientists tend to be realists and not idealists. It was only a matter of time. For months Schaecher had been concerned about the slow but steady stream of global reports mapping the microbe’s march.</p>
      <p>Concern about bacteria unaffected by colistin stems from the antibiotic’s critical role as the last line of defense against infection. If a microbial target displays resistance to many different antibiotics, or multidrug resistance, colistin is brought out and, in most cases, does the trick. But there are drawbacks. One of the reasons colistin still works, even though it is almost fifty years old, is because doctors seldom used it. The drug’s toxicity made it hard to justify prescribing it, especially when other less harmful options existed. In fact, for years, health care professionals relied on carbapenems <span id="p3" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="3" class="page"></span>as their final option antibiotic—that is, until carbapenem-resistant <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> (<span class="sm">CRE</span>) began spreading around the world at a furious clip. Making matters worse, <span class="sm">CRE</span> tended to carry multidrug resistance to various antibiotics with it. Their genes were somehow linked. Thus came colistin’s rise and the concern about its fall. Just like that, a doomsday scenario was on the table. What would happen if the new colistin-resistant bacteria swapped genetic material with <span class="sm">CRE</span>?</p>
      <p>Schaecher called Patrick McGann, a microbiologist and the chief of molecular research and diagnosis at the Multidrug-resistant Organism Repository and Surveillance Network (<span class="sm">MRSN</span>). He informed McGann of his discovery. It would need to be double-checked, even triple-checked. More intensive tests needed to be performed to ascertain the nature of the invasion. If the colistin-resistant bacteria had, in fact, made its way onto American shores, a whole battery of emergency procedures would fall into place.</p>
      <p>Making a spot judgment about the significance of Schaecher’s discovery was unwarranted. Bacteria could often develop isolated instances of resistance that appeared due to spontaneous mutations. Those were okay. They fizzled, then faded like sparklers on the Fourth of July. It was the resistance encoded into bacteria’s deoxyribonucleic acid (<span class="sm">DNA</span>), its traits passed down between generations, that posed the true danger.</p>
      <p>McGann did not take any chances. He drove to Schaecher’s lab and picked up the samples himself. When he returned to his lab, he labeled the bacteria “<i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634.” Next, he performed a basic test to determine whether colistin had any effect on the bacteria. Called microbroth susceptibility testing, the technique consisted of placing bacteria into a series of tiny wells, then adding mixtures of reagent and varying amounts of antibiotic. The degree to which the bacteria is cleared from a sample is indicated by a change in color. It is a quick means of determining whether a drug affects a bacteria and the minimal quantity of antibiotic necessary to elicit a response.</p>
      <p>The results matched: the bacteria exhibited the phenotype for colistin resistance. The possibility must have been equal parts exhilarating and terrifying. Still, he refrained from reading too much <span id="p4" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="4" class="page"></span>into it. He did not rush to sound any media alarms. He let it sink in. This was the exhilarating part. A significant finding. A moment in U.S. scientific history (infamous, no doubt). The beginning of the end? Hopefully not. Anyway, an initial identification was just the first step in a well-defined series of tests his lab would need to perform. The terrifying step was yet to come.</p>
      <p>Science tends to work in increments. Eureka moments are far and few between. There is no blaze to discovery. After an initial discovery, a meticulous collection of facts ensues. The scientific method ad nauseum. Rushing the process often leads to disastrous results. Mistakes could ruin a career. This case would go by the books, no matter the implications. A clearer picture would develop in its own time.</p>
      <p>The research team needed to establish the presence of the mobilized colistin resistance (mcr)-1 gene that is known to result in a colistin resistance. Confirming its presence with a more precise test than the quick-and-dirty microbroth susceptibility method was the team’s first priority. Rather than looking for the smoke to deduce the fire, the most reliable indicators pointed to the fire itself. Once mcr-1 was confirmed, establishing the gene’s exact location on <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634’s genetic material became critical. This was the step everyone feared in the back of their minds. Soon they’d know whether the resistance gene sat on a section of the bacteria’s genome that was readily transferred to other prokaryotes.</p>
      <p>While McGann attended a meeting, his team at Walter Reed began the painstaking process of painting the enemy’s portrait. Things hadn’t hit the “urgent” point yet, but the potential and inertia were there. All of the evidence so far seemed to be moving them in that direction. The simple fact that the sample had tested positive made further testing that much more imperative.</p>
      <p>The first significant step in understanding the nature of the bacteria was subjecting it to a process called real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time <span class="sm">PCR</span>). <span class="sm">PCR</span> works by using an enzyme that crawls along a single strand of <span class="sm">DNA</span>, replicating it one base pair (bp) at a time and detaching itself at a predetermined point. Each time the polymerase makes a pass on the <span class="sm">DNA</span>, another perfect replica is produced. The process repeats itself until a detectable segment of the genetic material is present. That end product can then be analyzed<span id="p5" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="5" class="page"></span> using <span class="sm">PCR</span> analysis software and compared in a database of genetic cartridges. Since it was discovered in the 1980s, the process has revolutionized laboratory work, particularly in detecting the presence of specific genes.</p>
      <p>Kathy “Ana” Ong, one of McGann’s team members, performed the test. In one half-inch well at a time, she used a micropipette to mix reagent, assay, and <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634’s genetic material. After working feverishly, the <span class="sm">PCR</span> machine quieted, and McGann’s team had their result: the mcr-1 gene was present. No room for doubt now. It was important but not altogether unexpected. It just made their findings official enough to go public with them. It ticked the first box.</p>
      <p>Ong texted McGann about the positive result. He replied, “You’re shitting me.”</p>
      <p>“We had to drop everything else to get this done,” he would later recall in a <i>Washington Post</i> article. “When the test came back positive, all hell broke loose.”</p>
      <p>He indicated that the lab’s team should move immediately to the next step—whole genome sequencing. Once that was completed, they would be able to determine whether this particular strain of <i>E. coli</i> had ever been seen before or whether it represented an entirely novel type of bacteria. Most important, they would be able to determine exactly where on the microbe’s genetic material the mcr-1 sequence was located. They needed to determine whether it resided on a chromosome or a plasmid. The difference between the two was immense.</p>
      <p>The identification process moved to a pair of much larger, more imposing, and more complex machines. The PacBio <span class="sm">RS</span> II and MiSeq benchtop sequencer have become staples in laboratories across the globe. They allow scientists to take an organism’s <span class="sm">DNA</span>—in this case, <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634—and determine the exact code. It’s a painstaking process only made possible by modern robotics and increased computer processing power. Both machines performed the same task, only at different speeds, with the former taking seventy-two hours and the latter in eight days. The results of each sequencer would be used to confirm the other’s.</p>
      <p>Everyone held their collective breath.</p>
      <p>Three days later, the results were waiting. Almost a week after <span id="p6" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="6" class="page"></span>that, confirmation arrived from MiSeq. It was definitive and terrifying. <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634 not only carried the mcr-1 gene but also bore the genetic sequences for fifteen additional types of antibiotic resistance. And while resistant bacteria are well known for carrying multiple resistance, the sheer quantity contained within the single organism was breathtaking.</p>
      <p>Now that <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634 had been identified, the researchers had a story. It had been seen before. It belonged to a strain first identified in 2008 in a urine sample taken in the United Kingdom. The strain appeared again in Italy that same year. The Italian culture differed from the British one in a very important way: in addition to being resistant to colistin, it also carried the genes bla<span class="sm">KPC</span>-3 and bla<span class="sm">CTX</span>-<span class="sm">M</span>-55, which code for carbapenem resistance. If the genes for carbapenem and colistin resistance were teamed together in more bacteria, the two most effective antibiotics remaining in doctors’ arsenal no longer mattered. The way some bacteria swapped genes, the idea that it was only a matter of time until these genes paired with the more common forms of resistance was far from remote. Public health officials labeled it a doomsday scenario. A return to the Dark Ages before penicillin and sulfa drugs just took a big step closer to existence. Infections would be untreatable; simple surgery, impossible; an inadvertent paper cut, a possible death sentence.</p>
      <p>The next secret <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634’s sequenced genome revealed suggested it truly was only a matter of time. What started off badly just got worse.</p>
      <p>Bacteria possess a unique genetic quirk that, from an evolutionary point of view, stacks the deck in their favor against just about every other organism on the planet. <span class="sm">DNA</span> tends to be wrapped around proteins for the vast majority of the earth’s creatures. Taken together, they are called chromosomes, and as far as individual genes are concerned, they are pretty massive. The primary means organisms have of passing their chromosomal <span class="sm">DNA</span> to subsequent generations is by sexual reproduction. While effective, it is limiting. It prevents dogs from mating with sea lions. It’s a bit of a process, even for unicellular microbes, and ensures that genes cannot be passed between different types of bacteria, or horizontally, so to speak. They can only <span id="p7" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="7" class="page"></span>be inherited by subsequent generations—that is, vertically. An <i>E. coli</i> cannot pass its chromosomal <span class="sm">DNA</span> on to <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i>.</p>
      <p>However, bacteria have an extra piece of <span class="sm">DNA</span> called a plasmid floating around its cell independently of the chromosome, which is almost anchored in place. This tiny snippet of <span class="sm">DNA</span>, often referred to as a replicon, is not technically alive, but it is able to reproduce on its own, much like a virus. Unlike chromosomal <span class="sm">DNA</span>, plasmids can be passed horizontally between different types of bacteria by a process known as conjugation. It allows them to share genes that are useful for survival.</p>
      <p>Antibiotic resistance is often promulgated in this way.</p>
      <p>According to the research paper published by McGann and his team, <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634 possessed two plasmids. The larger of the pair, p<span class="sm">MR</span>0516mcr, registered at 225,707 base pairs, and it dwarfed its 47,000-bp partner. The mcr-1 gene was located on the larger of the two, enabling it to be transferred horizontally with any bacteria it encountered. It was almost as if <i>E. coli</i> <span class="sm">MRSN</span> 388634 could sneeze and pass on its resistance. For some perspective, think of it this way: The average human body, inside and out, carries roughly 39 trillion bacteria. Multiply that by the number of human beings on the earth now—7.5 billion—and you get 2.925 x 10<sup>23</sup> bacteria on people alone. That number does not include the bacteria in the environment. A quick glance at the number should tip even the most unscientific-minded person off to the likelihood of just a few of those germs being engaged in beneficial transactions.</p>
      <p>And that realization is what must have scared the experts.</p>
      <p>Once the genome was pinned down, McGann notified his colleagues at the Department of Defense (<span class="sm">DOD</span>), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (<span class="sm">CDC</span>), the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Agriculture. He set in motion a chain of events that had been mapped out and mandated months before in the Barack Obama administration’s National Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria. It had been designed for events just like this one.</p>
      <p>The <span class="sm">DOD</span> began informing its stakeholders about the appearance of colistin-resistant bacteria on American shores, and the other agencies<span id="p8" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="8" class="page"></span> began issuing alerts. Press conferences came soon afterward, followed by a tidal wave of apocalyptic news articles.</p>
      <p>The demon had, in fact, arrived. And it was worse than anyone thought.</p>
      <hr class="sec-break" />
      <p class="psec">Colistin-resistant bacteria rank rather low on my list of daily concerns. Every day, when I open my eyes, I pine for a shot of caffeine. It consumes my thoughts, so I wobble my way into the kitchen. In a daily testament that miracles do happen, the pot of coffee gets made without scalding my palms or scorching my pajamas. Drip coffee. Pressed coffee. Percolator coffee. Cafetière. Instant. I’ve done it all, and at 6:30 a.m., I’m always splashing a bit of milk into my brew. While I may have pondered the utter genius of passing boiling water through roasted coffee grounds, I can guarantee you that I did not think about <i>Escherichia coli</i> once during the process.</p>
      <p>I read and listen and watch the news while sipping away. My smartphone commands my attention. My thumbs swipe the screen on autopilot, flipping through my various email accounts, news aggregators, and Twitter feeds. Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, <span class="sm">LINE</span>, WeChat, Snapchat, Signal, Viber, and my normal text messages connect me with friends. Unless there’s some coverage of an outbreak of food poisoning—hello, Chipotle—I still haven’t given the prokaryotic kingdom a morsel of my thought. At 7 a.m., I doubt I’m alone in my neglect.</p>
      <p>If it’s a weekday—or even weekends—I’m rushing out of the door sans breakfast. I’ll catch another coffee on my way to my destination. If I’m feeling rich, I’ll splurge on a bagel with the works. That would be an ideal time for the notion of bacteria to enter my mind, but who in the world thinks “bacteria” before digging into some cream cheese and lox? The moment passes without microbial incident.</p>
      <p>While I’m at my job, my mind is occupied with other things. Did my sports teams win? Should I buy that ugly new phone or watch? How long till lunch? Does my girlfriend still love me?</p>
      <p>Sometimes, I even think about the work I should be doing. <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i>? Not so much.</p>
      <p>If it’s a weekend, I might take the time to make breakfast. Eggs, home fries, baked beans, toast. Awesome. Reaching for the half-filled<span id="p9" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="9" class="page"></span> carton of brown, free-range, organic beauties, I should give salmonella a token thought. It loves eggs so much it lives in them. (Even my adoration has its limits.) Of course, what I’m really thinking about is whether an omelet or sunny-side up or poached eggs suit my fancy. After all, the eggs are in the fridge—as we Americans do—so they should be contamination free by default.</p>
      <p>That’s not to say that nobody thinks about bacteria daily. Bacteriologists obviously do. It’s their job. Doctors and nurses, the same. Par for the course. People in the food industry think about them too. It’s a part of their job, one that I sometimes wish they’d pay more attention to. These people are exceptions to the rule, though.</p>
      <p>Of course, at times humanity’s uneasy coexistence with microbes gets thrust into the limelight. Food-borne illnesses dominate the discourse. Salmonella, <i>E. coli</i>, and listeria feature prominently in the gastronomy-gone-rogue narratives, and thankfully, fatalities seem to be the exception of late.</p>
      <p>Not far behind, methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (<span class="sm">MRSA</span>) casts a black pall over health care facilities worldwide. It’s the famous rascal among a family of rakes. Since the late 1950s, the medical and scientific communities have met this most opportunistic of microbes head-on. At first, they limited its reach to hospitals, where it colonized everything from plastic medical tubes to the air circulating through vents. It latched onto open wounds and slipped into patients’ bloodstreams. Infection led to tragedy.</p>
      <p>In recent years, <span class="sm">MRSA</span> shot to the public’s attention thanks to the popular media’s sensational branding of “flesh-eating bacteria,” which represents an unhelpful and inaccurate representation of the condition. (Even when bacteria manage to infiltrate our collective consciousness, we defer to Hollywood tropes rather than attempt to understand the bleak reality at hand.) Ask someone about necrotizing fasciitis, and you’ll get a blank stare. Mention flesh-eating bacteria, and I guarantee a glimmer of awareness.</p>
      <p>Truth is, antibiotic resistance proves less compelling for a general population accustomed to the immediacy of the human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (<span class="sm">HIV</span>/<span class="sm">AIDS</span>) and the hysteria of avian influenza. Even the story leading this introduction falls short. Never mind that it essentially points <span id="p10" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="10" class="page"></span>to the paved road from here to hell; it still lacks that final punch to make it memorable. The story is difficult to connect with. Blood wasn’t pouring out of any orifices. Virus-filled vomit wasn’t being projected halfway across the room. Even less forgivable to a modern, popular science narrative, nobody died. The patient had a <span class="sm">UTI</span>.</p>
      <p>Why is this a big deal? Because your average citizen who reaps the advantages of living in an antibacterial world—that is to say, being alive—is clueless about the disaster looming down the road.</p>
      <p>Daily existence would be different had penicillin and its descendants never been discovered and developed. I was born and raised during the antibiotic era. I reap its benefits every time I cut my finger while cooking and don’t even bat an eyelash. I have bacitracin, so it’s all good. When I travel to a country where everything from freshly washed salad to ice cubes represent opportunities for bacterial ambush, I take solace in knowing that when push comes to shove, I have my bottle of amoxicillin. Should I need surgery to fix my bum back, I’m more concerned about the duration of my convalescence than the fact that my body would be cut open and exposed to legions of foreign bacteria. At any other time in history, I’d be taking stock of my life instead and wondering whether the world would really continue to turn once I passed. To say that we take antibiotics for granted is an understatement.</p>
      <p>And yet, it’s out there. Resistance. The darkness hugging the horizon. The secondary hospital—or nosocomial, in medical parlance—infections that greet immunocompromised patients at hospital entrances and never leave their sides for the length of their stay. The slimy biofilms that form inside medical equipment, impervious to sterilization and imperious in their unity. The potent bacteria incubating in factory farms, given free rein to live long and prosper. The flora we carry on our skin, in our mouths, and in our guts that are benign until they are not. Bacteria are constant threats.</p>
      <p>According to the <span class="sm">CDC</span>, eighteen specific forms of resistance pose a significant danger to the well-being of Americans. Seventeen are bacterial and one is fungal. Employing a three-tier grading system of urgent, serious, and concerning, the <span class="sm">CDC</span> system consists of germs that cause familiar and not-so-familiar diseases. The common infections that would become untreatable in a resistant world—pharyngitis,<span id="p11" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="11" class="page"></span> pneumonia, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, meningitis, gonorrhea—are truly terrifying because treating them is so routine today. Then there are all sorts of infections we tend to shrug off as “stomach bugs.” They would all become life-threatening conditions, as would common everyday surgery.</p>
      <p>For scientists and health professionals, however, the most horrific bacteria are the ones displaying resistance to a range of drugs. Those bacteria include extended-spectrum beta-lactamase <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i>, multidrug-resistant <i>Acinetobacter</i>, vancomycin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i>, and carbapenem-resistant <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i>. The latter occupies a particularly troubling place because of carbapenem’s role as one of the last-line-of-defense weapons doctors have to combat other untreatable infections. In addition, the genes that code for its activity tend to be associated with other types of resistance, making it impervious to treatment. Yet, as with colistin-resistant bacteria, the most troubling aspect of <span class="sm">CRE</span> is not the microbe itself but with its potential as a pan-drug-resistant gene vector swapping plasmids with other bacteria. It carries the power to avoid antibiotics in its pocket and is ready to hand out its talents like personal calling cards.</p>
      <p>We live in a bacterial world. They rule everything, sight unseen. Long after we’ve become extinct and only brittle hints of our existence litter the earth, they will be here. Bacteria are active and vibrant and consistent in their march. Meanwhile, human beings are as fickle as their attention spans are short. People are not personally invested in antibiotic development though they benefit from it regularly. As a result, available and effective treatments lag their bacterial opponents. If people do not press governments and corporations, the inaction to develop new, effective treatments will continue.</p>
      <hr class="sec-break" />
      <p class="psec">On June 2016, over the course of an afternoon, twenty-four members of Congress peered from their perches on Capitol Hill. Four scientists faced them, a moat of empty swivel chairs separating the two parties, perhaps for safety but most likely for symbolism. The optics of power politics were on full display. A new form of antibiotic resistant bacteria had invaded America, and these politicians on the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations wanted <span id="p12" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="12" class="page"></span>answers. The meeting revolved more around rehashing oft-repeated notions of antibiotic resistance, however, than about fighting the onrushing scourge. Considering its affirmative title, “Combating Superbugs: U.S. Public Health Responses to Antibiotic Resistance,” the session proved disheartening. The image of hamsters sprinting on wheels comes to mind.<a id="en1r" role="doc-noteref" class="enref" href="unp-landas-0022.xhtml#en1">1</a></p>
      <p>The positive result for colistin-resistant <i>E. coli</i> represented a breathtaking paradigm shift in American epidemiology. But it was the earthquake that no one but the scientists felt.</p>
      <p>Long before the hearings, <span class="sm">CDC</span> director Thomas Frieden offered the most succinct analysis of the situation. “The medicine cabinet is empty,” he declared.</p>
      <p>What he left out in his full statement was an explanation as to why. Had he elaborated, he would have had to point out the inaction of pharmaceutical companies and government politicians such as the people in the room. What would be implied throughout the hearing but nobody dared utter was that it did not have to be this way. Yet, there they were, proof that it was.</p>
      <p>Representatives from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (<span class="sm">NIAID</span>) of the National Institutes of Health, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (<span class="sm">BARDA</span>), and the Food and Drug Administration (<span class="sm">FDA</span>) took turns explaining their respective agencies’ roles in the war against antibiotic resistant bacteria. They shuffled papers, tweaked their notes, and waited patiently while their colleagues read from prepared statements. Congress granted them five minutes each. Their words were entered into the record for legislative posterity.</p>
      <p>Dr. Beth Bell, director of the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases at the <span class="sm">CDC</span>: “The identification of mcr-1 vividly illustrates our domestic and global challenges of antibiotic resistance. Mcr-1 was first identified in China in November of last year, and in less than six months, had been identified in a human and two animals in the United States. Antibiotic use anywhere can potentially affect any one of us.”</p>
      <p>Dr. Dennis Dixon from the Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases at <span class="sm">NIAID</span>: “<span class="sm">NIAID</span> recently awarded funding for <span id="p13" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="13" class="page"></span>research projects to develop non-traditional therapeutics for bacterial infections and funds clinical studies, testing new formulations, dosing regimens or combination therapies of currently licensed drugs such as colistin.”</p>
      <p>Dr. Richard Hatchett, acting director at <span class="sm">BARDA</span>: “We have achieved notable success. Our portfolio is quite mature at this point. Five <span class="sm">BARDA</span> products are in Phase 3 clinical development, and two have completed the pivotal studies required for <span class="sm">FDA</span> approval. . . . Several products showed promise for the treatment of infections due to carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae.”</p>
      <p>Dr. Janet Woodcock, director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the <span class="sm">FDA</span>: “Drug development in this area remains fragile and weak. The incentives that have been put in place apparently are not enough to overcome the scientific challenges that the industry faces in finding new targets and developing these, and then actually making money on them.”</p>
      <p>The hearing touched on the issues that tend to arise in any discussion of antibiotic resistance. At this point in the game, it’s almost by rote. Improved stewardship of antibiotic use with quicker testing and diagnosis decreases inappropriate prescriptions. The days without antibiotics is near. While the participants’ intentions might have been noble, the most striking thing about the session was the general lack of ideas and creative approaches to a nearly sixty-year-old problem. The role of politicians as investigative critics did little to facilitate the process. Their questions lacked insight and sometimes even preparation.</p>
      <p>There was nothing contentious about the ensuing session. On the contrary, the exchanges between the subcommittee members and their expert witnesses maintained an even, congenial keel. As Rep. Tim Murphy (<span class="sm">R</span>-<span class="sm">PA</span>) said, “We’re on the same team. We’re just trying to help.” Yet for all the cooperative back-patting, there was a striking lack of urgency.</p>
      <p>The <span class="sm">BARDA</span> Combating Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria Accelerator (<span class="sm">CARB</span>-<span class="sm">X</span>) program appeared to be the afternoon’s exception. Touted by <span class="sm">BARDA</span>’s acting director, Dr. Richard Hatchett, as an incubator for novel approaches to the antibiotic program that fast-tracked<span id="p14" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="14" class="page"></span> promising drugs through time-consuming test phases, the program offered the most promise.</p>
      <p>“Innovation frequently occurs in small biotechnology companies and in academic laboratories with limited resources and expertise to move product candidates forward,” Hatchett said, reading from a prepared statement. “In such circumstances, promising early stage candidates often fail to advance. The accelerator will serve as an incubator for new products and explicitly seeks to improve success rates in the early stage antibiotic pipeline.”</p>
      <p>Yet, when the commission returned to the program during the question-and-answer session, the initial promise fell flat upon closer inspection. The exchange with Rep. Marsha Blackburn (<span class="sm">R</span>-<span class="sm">TN</span>) is telling.</p>
      <p>“Going back into February,” she said, “<span class="sm">BARDA</span> established the accelerator to support in research and development. . . . We’ve been so interested in that. . . . I would like it if you could take just a minute and talk a little about the specific candidates that you all have put in, about some of the vaccines or the microbials, some of the alternative therapies that you are reviewing in that program.”</p>
      <p>“Just to be clear, the accelerator has not been established yet,” Hatchett replied. “We put out this solicitation earlier this year, and we’ve received the proposals, we had a good response. And we actually are in the process of negotiating with the lead candidates right now. So, we have . . .”</p>
      <p>“Okay, when you say a good response, quantify that for me a little bit.”</p>
      <p>“I believe we had five proposals,” he replied.</p>
      <p>Five proposals.</p>
      <p>Blackburn continued to press Hatchett for a timetable for how quickly <span class="sm">BARDA</span>’s not-quite-existent accelerator could have something to show for its efforts (and Congress’s money, presumably). “And what is your expectation once you are able to populate the accelerator basically? How long do you think it will be before we begin to see next generation products that are ready to go to the marketplace?”</p>
      <p>Hatchett explained the difference between allowing the drugs to develop without aid from <span class="sm">BARDA</span>. It’s a question of decades versus <span id="p15" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="15" class="page"></span>a few years. “The things that are in the accelerator are not going to pop out of the accelerator right into the marketplace. They’re going to be brought to the stage of clinical—”</p>
      <p>“Fine,” Blackburn said, cutting him off.</p>
      <p>“It would take several years,” Hatchett continued.</p>
      <p>Blackburn was not content. She persisted, “We understand that but we—when we look at some of these drugs that are taking 10 years, 12 years to get through the process and you look at the entire compendium and you looked at what goes on with them, the innovators working with the <span class="sm">FDA</span>. Our hope is, is that we’re going to see your process work and help to push this to the marketplace sooner . . . that there will be some efficiencies. We know you’ve got some challenges, but we are hopeful there will be some efficiencies in moving it forward.”</p>
      <p>Finally understanding what was expected of him, Hatchett drew a parallel between the <i>Zaire ebolavirus</i> outbreak in 2014 and the subsequent development of a potential vaccine. Stating that it had taken only a couple of years, he received a reprieve.</p>
      <p>Satisfied that she had altered the laws of nature during a congressional hearing, Blackburn concluded, “That’s helpful. That’s what we want to hear.”</p>
      <p>Colistin-resistant bacteria aren’t the only problem. Daily life conditions us to think locally. It’s understandable. Except on rare occasions, distant events bear little impact on our daily frustrations. War in the Middle East cannot compete with the frustration that shoots through your body when traffic bottlenecks at the same point on your way to work. The latest nuclear bomb test by the North Koreans—distressing as it may be—cannot compete with the irritation at discovering thousands of dollars’ worth of unexplained charges on your credit card statement. And tyranny abroad cannot compete with the undeterred tyranny at home posed each month when bills begin rolling in. We focus on what’s in front of us and deal with the wider world as an afterthought.</p>
      <p>It’s easy to analyze antibiotic resistance along similar terms. An estimated 2 million resistant infections occur annually in the United States. This results in a projected $25 billion–$30 billion additional health care costs on top of twenty-three thousand deaths. They are <span id="p16" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="16" class="page"></span>daunting figures, yet they represent a very limited statistical slice of the pie. The European Union reports similar figures, estimating roughly twenty-five thousand deaths and economic losses around 1.5 billion euros. Studies project the trend to worsen.</p>
      <p>Around the world, new strains of resistance emerge like buds in a spring meadow. Colistin-resistant <i>E. coli</i> prove that no amount of walls or restrictions can control its spread. It originated in China, moved to Europe, and then breached American shores. That’s the way it works these days.</p>
      <p>Different regions possess very distinct profiles of antibiotic resistance. While resistant bacteria travel between continents with ease, a country’s resistance spectrum nonetheless often reflects conditions particular to that place—for example, the specific drugs prescribed in the country.</p>
      <p>Like most countries, Japan’s antibiotic resistance problem threatens its population every day. Recent years have seen the increasing prevalence of multidrug-resistant bacteria while options for treatment shrink in inverse proportion. While the same bacteria that circulate around the world are present in Japan, local antibiotic resistance exhibits subtle differences compared with the rest of the world.</p>
      <p>In the early 1990s, Japan experienced a significant rise in methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> infections in hospital settings, mirroring the worldwide trend. Genetic lineage analysis of nosocomial <span class="sm">MRSA</span> strains reveals the existence of seven primary types (as opposed to community-associated <span class="sm">MRSA</span>, which differs from nosocomial strains); however, <span class="sm">MRSA</span> in Japan is still relatively treatable with glycopeptide antibiotics such as vancomycin. The same is not the case in the United States, where vancomycin-resistant strains of <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (<span class="sm">VRSA</span>) are prevalent. This discrepancy is thought to be attributable to the horizontal transmission of resistance from vancomycin-resistant enterococci (<span class="sm">VRE</span>) to <span class="sm">VRSA</span>. Historically Japan has exhibited low detection rates of <span class="sm">VRE</span>, possibly explaining <span class="sm">VRSA</span>’s absence.</p>
      <p>Another example of resistance differing due to local conditions is <i>Haemophilus influenzae</i>. Initially treatable with ampicillin, it began to exhibit resistance to penicillin-derived antibiotics in the 1980s through the production of beta-lactamase. For whatever reason, that <span id="p17" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="17" class="page"></span>same strain decreased in Japan a decade later, only to be replaced by a genetically different strain called beta-lactamase-negative, ampicillin-resistant <i>Haemophilus influenzae</i>. The rise of this strain is thought to be the result of an increased use of cephem antibiotics, such as cephamycin, in Japan versus the rest of the world.</p>
      <p>Of all the countries actively reporting antibiotic resistance, India offers the starkest illustration of the effects local conditions play in the development of antibiotic resistance. A quick glance at the statistics gives the impression of an antibiotic wasteland. Some bacteria such as <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i>, <i>Escherichia coli</i>, <i>Enterobacter aerogenes</i> and <i>E. cloacae</i>, and <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> show nearly 100 percent resistance to multiple antibiotics. A host of others exhibit upward of 50 percent resistance. Considering the ease at which resistant strains circumnavigate the globe, the situation in India is truly frightening.</p>
      <p>The reasons behind the deteriorating situation in India are complex. Unlike most Western nations, where agricultural uses have greatly contributed to antibiotic resistance, its development in India stems from human health. With a population of nearly 1.252 billion people, India boasts one of the highest infectious disease burdens in the world. Coupled with a poor public health infrastructure, doctors and patients rely on medicine to treat a wide spectrum of diseases and often inappropriately. India was the world’s largest consumer of antibiotics for human health in 2010. Because of India’s increasing affluence, antibiotics are more readily available there now than in the past. Overall, this is good as a large portion of India’s population has access to life-saving drugs; however, regulation has not kept pace. Over-the-counter sales are common. It has gotten to the point where India’s nonprescription sales of carbapenems are among the highest in the world and are a major contributor to the wave of <span class="sm">CRE</span> and other gram-negative microbes around the world.</p>
      <p>However frightening an outlier India may seem, it may soon be the worldwide norm should we fail to develop new classes of antibiotics. If the head-spinning rapidity of colistin resistance’s spread from China proves anything, it is that little can prevent a super germ from hitching a ride on a boat or a plane or even a spacecraft. Antibiotic resistance is a global problem exacerbated by the mesh of disease<span id="p18" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="18" class="page"></span> that modern travel’s crisscrossing routes have created. Man’s impotence in the face of the prokaryotic kingdom’s relentless march forward has never been more evident.</p>
      <p>A simple analysis? The situation is desperate.</p>
      <hr class="sec-break" />
      <p class="psec">Capitalism giveth, capitalism taketh. During the post–World War II years, the urgency with which pharmaceutical companies pursued antibiotic research and development gave credit to the title of “miracle drugs.” From the soil—where most of the discoveries were derived—an amazing cornucopia of bacteria-bashing chemicals sprouted. Tilling the soil. Harvesting of medicine. Images of scientists, cloaked in white and wielding their tools, adorned the covers of magazines, and some, such as Selman Waksman at Rutgers (then primarily an agricultural institute) and with Merck and Company, passed into scientific lore like an antimicrobial Johnny Appleseed in reverse. Profit motive compelled them to achieve incredible discoveries, yet they made bold choices nonetheless. They stood to lose piles of money, especially during those early uncertain years; they persevered and, to their credit, literally hit pay dirt.</p>
      <p>Then complacency set in.</p>
      <p>If credit is granted for their achievements, criticism must be doled out as well. The turnaround from sprinting between discoveries to pure neglect is nothing short of a crime. In the face of the world’s dwindling antibiotic arsenal, the lack of urgency between governments and pharmaceutical companies is startling. It’s hard to imagine that both parties understand what is at stake because when the impetus is there, the public and private sectors take decisive strides toward whatever goal they set. It happened during World War II with the development of penicillin. As a more recent example, the 2016 outbreak of Ebola resulted in potential vaccines being developed within a few years.</p>
      <p>The antibiotic industry died in the early 1980s. Today, ﻿research and development languishes in a state of perpetual limbo. Most companies have stopped looking altogether. In fact, out of roughly thirty-four companies with antibiotics in clinical development, only five rank in the top fifty pharmaceutical companies by sales. Smaller and nimbler biotechnology start-ups assumed the responsibility, but they lack the robust funds and network of connections <span id="p19" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="19" class="page"></span>the giants of Big Pharma can muster. In fact, they are considered “pre-revenue,” meaning they have no products that have made it to market yet. The new paradigm impels them to make their discovery in the hopes of being acquired by a large company such as Pfizer or GlaxoSmithKlein. Even then,﻿ nothing is guaranteed since the industry has labeled antibiotics as unprofitable. Unlike diseases that treat chronic, incurable conditions that require a lifetime of medicinal purchases, antibiotics function as efficient and effective cures. A few doses and you’re done. It’s not an appealing proposition for stockholders and analysts.</p>
      <p>In the meantime, a search for solutions continues. In an attempt at incentivizing the pharmaceutical industry—essentially dangling a cash “carrot”—the government has extended patent exclusivity so that companies can delay being undercut by generic versions of their drugs. In addition, it has fast-tracked certain drugs the <span class="sm">FDA</span> has deemed to address urgent issues. While helpful it does not go far enough. The pharmaceutical industry has refused to bite, exposing a lack of ideas at a governmental level.</p>
      <p>Making due with what they have, scientists are scrambling to discover new drugs and novel classes of antibiotics that rely on different strategies than past drugs. According to a study conducted by the Pew Charitable Trusts, as of September 2016, forty new drugs were in development with fourteen in phase 1 clinical trials, thirteen in phase 2, eleven in phase 3, and two drugs under review by the <span class="sm">FDA</span>. As the study notes, “However, given the inevitability that some of these antibiotics will fail to win approval, it is clear that there are too few drugs in development to meet current and anticipated patient needs.”</p>
      <p>Researchers have also turned to an old-but-new approach to antibiotic research and development. Long ignored by Western scientists, bacteriophages and botanicals—essentially herbal medicines—formed the backbone of Russian and former Soviet bloc pharmaceutical companies since the Cold War. A long tradition in those areas allowed them to be employed as stop-gap measures since years of U.S.-led embargoes and questionable economic approaches resulted in chronic shortages of drugs and production supplies that never completely abated until after the Berlin Wall fell. Now biotechnology companies are taking a second look at them—no longer <span id="p20" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="20" class="page"></span>tainted by politics—as possible solutions to the current antibiotic crisis. Bacteriophages, in particular, offer drug designers a more targeted approach compared with the nuclear-option, broad-spectrum antibiotics that exacerbated the resistance problem. One can only ponder what our current situation would be had we been less reliant on drugs that obliterated bacteria en masse, thereby increasing the selective pressure for resistance.</p>
      <p>The fact remains that after a promising start, the antibiotic development paradigm no longer works. Misplaced priorities—corporate, governmental, and public—have exacerbated the problem. To be clear, they and their policies are not the cause of antibiotic resistance, which is a natural phenomenon probably as old as bacteria themselves. Still, by placing profits ahead of progress, pharmaceutical companies have endangered the public, and by placing politics ahead of the greater good, governments have squandered the closest thing science has come to a medical magic bullet.</p>
      <hr class="sec-break" />
      <p class="psec">Even before penicillin became available to the public, five years to be exact, the first studies describing penicillin-resistant strains of bacteria had been published in scientific literature. Since then, data has been accumulating so that by 2019, over seventy-five years’ worth of findings are available for study. Despite the field’s shortcomings, consensus among researchers and public health officials have produced a number of points designed to slow the creep of resistant bacteria. To achieve this goal, the World Health Organization devised a global action plan with five strategic objectives that are based on factors believed to foster antibiotic resistance:</p>
      <ul style="list-style-type:none">
        <li class="ulf">to improve <i>awareness</i> and understanding of antimicrobial resistance,</li>
        <li class="ul">to strengthen knowledge through <i>surveillance</i> and research,</li>
        <li class="ul">to <i>reduce the incidence of infection</i>,</li>
        <li class="ul">to <i>optimize the use</i> of antimicrobial agents, and</li>
        <li class="ull">to develop the economic case for sustainable investment that takes account of the needs of all countries and increases investment in new medicines, diagnostic tools, vaccines, and other interventions.</li>
      </ul>
      <p><span id="p21" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="21" class="page"></span>Each of the points addresses an aspect of how antibiotic resistance is believed to arise. The first ensures that the correct drug is only used against bacteria susceptible to it. Incorrect usage fails to kill the disease-causing bacteria while allowing resistant forms to arise. The second point deals with basic research and the fact that only by properly studying bacteria and antibiotic resistance can they be addressed. The third point states the obvious: avoiding infection reduces the chances of resistance. This also entails preventing circumstances ripe for acquiring infections, such as war and its aftermath where critical urban infrastructure is often destroyed. The fourth point means not only using the right antibiotic but also administering it in adequate doses that are known to kill targeted bacteria. Inadequate dosage (as seen in counterfeit drugs), incomplete treatments (disrupted by conflict zone conditions), and subtherapeutic doses (as seen in agriculture settings)—all play roles in fostering antibiotic resistance.</p>
      <p>It cannot be stressed enough: the book does not suggest that the Cold War caused antibiotic resistance in any form. The ability of bacteria to circumvent man-made chemotherapeutic drugs, beginning with sulfonamides, existed way before they were discovered. The aim of this work is to demonstrate how the tug-of-war between the East and the West created conditions that common scientific consensus believes foster antibiotic resistance.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
2023-08-06 12:59:43 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-06 12:59:44 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-06 12:59:46 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-06 12:59:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:52 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:54 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 12:59:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:59:58 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 12:59:59 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-06 13:00:20 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-06 13:00:21 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-06 13:00:21 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@3bab3336
