2023-09-04 04:13:58 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-09-04 04:13:58 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-04 04:14:24 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-04 04:14:24 INFO  - Session id - c303bd8b2d8671c8a269868bb6a57e9af53b66b9
2023-09-04 04:14:24 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-04 04:14:24 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:26 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-04 04:14:27 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-04 04:14:27 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:27 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-04 04:14:28 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-04 04:14:28 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:14:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-04 04:14:33 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:34 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-04 04:14:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:35 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:36 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:37 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-04 04:14:38 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:38 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:39 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:40 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:41 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000004
2023-09-04 04:14:41 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - bookName: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: A Signature Performance by Elijah Wood Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - bookName: The House in the Cerulean Sea Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - bookName: The Critique of Practical Reason Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - bookName: Cryptonomicon Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:14:42 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000004'
2023-09-04 04:14:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:14:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-04 04:14:46 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:14:51 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:14:52 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-04 04:15:12 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:15:13 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-04 04:15:13 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:15:34 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-04 04:15:54 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:15:56 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-04 04:15:56 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-09-04 04:15:56 INFO  - randomBookName: The Accidental Familiar
2023-09-04 04:15:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 04:15:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Accidental Familiar'
2023-09-04 04:15:58 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 04:16:00 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 04:16:02 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:16:02 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:09 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 04:16:09 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:16:10 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:10 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-04 04:16:11 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:12 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-04 04:16:12 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-04 04:16:27 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-09-04 04:16:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-04 04:16:28 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-04 04:16:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 04:16:29 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
<title>Chapter 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="P_Heading_1"><span>Chapter 1</span></h1>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“<span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.50em;">Y</span>ou’re talking. Like <i>talking-talking</i>, as in your mouth is moving and words are coming out. Words, I might add, that make total sense.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Totally fucked-up, right?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy McGuillicuddy snorted<i>. So totally.</i> “<i>How</i> is it even possible that you’re talking to me?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“You have three choices.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She gulped in the chilled autumn air, inhaling the scent of damp fur and the lingering stench of cheap booze before she sat up straighter and looked the talking cat in the eye (<i>the talking cat</i>).</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Okay, give me my choices. I’m listening.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The tiny, round black cat began to pace the length of the brick garden wall they’d sat upon when Poppy had demanded she needed air after their “accident”.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The cat stretched, arching its rippling spine, the blue-black of its fur shimmering under the street lamp at the end of the driveway. “First, I just have to make mention. Cooler than coolio costume. Big KISS fan here.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy preened, fluffing her Afro wig and puffing out her chest to accent the shirt she wore, nude in color with glued-on patches of cotton balls she’d dyed black to mimic copious amounts of chest hair.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Thanks. I worked extra hard on the star over my eye. Rock and roll hootchie-koo.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“It totally shows. I’d know you were Paul Stanley if I was blind. Kudos for not going with the obvious choice, too.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She flapped a hand at the cat and smiled at how clever she’d felt when she’d put this crazy costume together. “Gene’s so overdone. Plus, there’s the tongue thing, you know? I’m just not qualified. Anyway, where were we?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Choices,” the cat repeated.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Right.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“So let me lay this out for you in list form. You sure you’re ready?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Probably not, but I feel like choices are probably moot.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The feline dipped its shiny, dark head. “No truer words. So here it is in a nutshell. Option one: you can hear me talking to you because you’re fuckin’ nuts. Two: you’re on drugs or have been drugged, which wouldn’t surprise me with that crowd of bananapants stoners in there at that lame excuse for a Halloween party. Three: I’m really talking to you.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy looked off toward her best friend’s house, sitting just behind the garden wall, and shivered. “I don’t like any of those categories, Alex. Can I have another?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“<i>Jeopardy</i> doesn’t work that way, Poppy, and you know it,” the cat scolded. “Alex Trebek would be so insulted.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She gaped at the cat. “How do you know my name?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The cat scoffed, sitting up straight and affecting a jaunty pose. “Well, it went something like this: ‘Yo, yo, yo, girlz and booooyz! This is Poppy M to the C to the Guill-i-cudd-E in da house, spinnin’ you some oldies but goodies tonight! Who all remembers this mad-ass hit by the Spin Doooctooooors?’ So see? It wasn’t like you kept your name some big secret.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Right. Her Run DMC impression. She’d been DJ-ing at her old friend Mel’s party before all this had gone down. And what had gone down during that party was nutters. Everything was nutters.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">So she said as much to the cat as she rubbed her hands together to keep them warm. “This is insane.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Or maybe <i>you</i> are,” the feline offered, dry with sarcasm, sitting back on its haunches and eyeballing her with those wide green orbs.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy cocked her head, remembering the cat’s words. “Insanity… That was one of the choices you laid out, right?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Yep. Because sometimes if you’re crazy, it goes hand and hand with delusions. Maybe I’m just a delusion you’ve cooked up in your nutbag head.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Right. Maybe this was all a delusion. She wasn’t prone to them that she knew of, but how would you know you were having delusions if you were delusional?</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She looked down at her phone and the number the cat had told her to call when it realized something was terribly out of whack and talked her into coming outside to handle their little indiscretion with less Blink-182 and Rick James blaring in their ears.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy picked up her phone, letting her feline companion hear the endless drone of ringing on the other end. “I don’t think anyone’s going to pick up. Maybe I dialed the wrong—”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“This is Nina Blackman-Statleon of OOPS, for all your dramatic, life-altering emergency paranormal needs. Recently PA-and ratchety-ass, bag-o’-old-crusty-Paranormal-Council-bones approved as a legitimate source for the stickier paranormal events in your life. So, do tell. How can I help your pathetic, whiny soul today?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Before Poppy was able to ask what all this talk about crisis and crusty-bones approved business was about, someone cut off the woman on the other end of the line.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Nina!” a woman with a melodic voice chastised in the background. “Stop that! That could be a real client on the other end in dire need!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“What, Fakey-Locks? Like they’re not pathetic when they’re all needy and clingy? Please. You asked me to answer the phones tonight, and that’s what I’m doin’. Just shut your over-glossed lips and let me handle this.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy waivered, rethinking the cat’s nutball suggestion to ring up this hotline called OOPS, one alleging it offered help when you were in paranormal crisis.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">But the cat had told her to call this number as if the number itself were a lifeline to God. The <i>talking</i> cat said this was who to call—nay, it had insisted these were the people to bring into this so-called mess.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Well speak, for catnip’s sake!” the persistent feline urged, nudging her elbow with its peculiarly round head. “We don’t have all stinkin’ night. We need to get this shit straightened out before Familiar Central sends someone in. It won’t look good if we dawdle. You don’t want to look bad in front of your new superiors, do you, Spin Doctor?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Poppy!” she blurted out her name, because for some reason it seemed important she be known as something more than the DJ. “My name is Poppy. DJ-ing is just something I do on the side for a little extra cash,” she stated with as much clarity as one could muster when having a conversation with a house pet.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“It’ll be Shit On A Stick if you don’t get crackin’.” The cat’s tail swished in an agitated semi-circle over the surface of the bricks again. “Now talk!” it hissed.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Hellooo? You’ve got twenty GD seconds before I use my internal GPS and hunt your ass down for crank calling me,” the woman named Nina groused. “I’m gonna start counting now. One…”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy closed her eyes and took a shaky, deep breath of the cold night air, trying to sort through the bits and pieces about familiars and superiors and focus on the fact that this person on the other end of the line was supposed to help her.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">With a trembling hand, Poppy finally held the phone up to her ear. “Um, hello?” she whispered into the phone, attempting a calm tone.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">No one was going to retell this horror story someday and call Poppy McGuillicuddy a chicken-shit. Not on your life. When witnesses retold this harrowing tale, it would always be prefaced by how brave she’d been.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“I <i>said,</i> how the eff can I help you?” the voice belonging to Nina, the OOPS operator, growled.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Okay, so forget valor. Shit, shit, shit. This was a mistake. A big mistake.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">But the cat, the damn <i>talking</i> cat, nudged Poppy again and shouted over the screech of Run DMC still blaring from inside her best friend’s house, “Tell that crabby-AF, pale-faced beast of the female persuasion it’s her friggin’ reluctant-as-hell familiar calling!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She looked down at the tiny cat with the round head and eyes the color and shape of green marbles and bit the inside of her cheek to keep from screaming<i>.</i></p>
<p class="P_Body_Text"><i>In and out, Poppy. Breathe in and out</i>. <i>Don’t panic</i>.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Yo?” Nina prodded, still growling and quite clearly annoyed.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Finally composed, she waded into the conversation pool carefully, because the person on the other end of the phone sounded like everything would be much less explosive if you spoke delicately.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Your talking cat said I should call you at this number. Did I mention your cat talks? Like, it actually talks. Can I ask you something before we shift into high gear and get to the root of my phone call to you?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">There was a long sigh and then the cantankerous woman said, “You get one question. After that, I get annoyed as all hell, and if you don’t like me now—which, based on my past history with first impressions, I’m guessin’ you’re not a fucking fan yet—then you sure as shit won’t like me when I’m aggravated.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy swallowed, smoothing the leggings she wore as part of her Paul Stanley costume over her knees. “Just <i>one</i> question? That’s all I get? That seems wholly unfair. This is a crisis hotline, isn’t it?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Is that how you want to spend your one question—in negotiations?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She blinked and came to her senses almost instantly. “No! Sorry. Okay. My one question. Why does your cat talk, lady? Why am I sitting here, outside what was supposed to be a fun, easy DJ-ing gig for some extra vacation money at my best friend’s Halloween Party turned waking nightmare, with a talking cat?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Put the GD <i>talking</i> cat on the phone, Cupcake,” Nina’s husky voice demanded.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy paused with a frown and considered how exactly to do that. “Like, hold the phone to its ear? Are you serious?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Is the cat talking to you, Princess?” Nina snarled.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy squirmed on the uncomfortable garden wall of bricks she’d perched herself on after this series of unfortunate events had all gone down. “Well, yeah…”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Then is it a stretch it would talk to me, too, Kumquat? <i>Now put the cat on the GD phone</i>!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy pulled her cell from her ear and held it up to the cat, putting the phone on speaker. “She wants to talk to you. As in you, the cat. The <i>talking</i> cat.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">There was just no way around this. This was really happening. Or it <i>felt</i> like it was really happening. Maybe someone had dropped acid in her drink? A roofie? No. She’d be passed out if she’d been roofied. Right?</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Besides, she was always careful about where she set her water. Even at a party hosted by a friend, she took precautions, because that’s just how Poppy McGuillicuddy rolled. Cautiously.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The cat blinked its overly large, utterly mesmerizing eyes and cocked its head, leaning closer to the phone. “That you, Pale One?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“That you, Catastrophe?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“It’s Calamity, you ridiculously, unfairly gorgeous waste of a great ass. We got some shit. Some deep, dark, murky shit going on here.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Like?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy heard the tension in this woman Nina’s voice. She sounded really mad. It almost sounded as if she were the parent and the talking cat was her toddler.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Calamity? Answer the flippin’ question!” the woman roared in such a forceful way, even the leaves on the trees shook.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The cat, possibly named Calamity—Poppy couldn’t be sure because the woman on the other end of the phone had used two adjectives when addressing said cat—rasped a sigh of full-on exasperation.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Don’t get your fangs twisted, Blood Lover Lite. Just get here and bring the ditzy blonde with all that lip gloss and hair bleach. Oh, and the nice one who sneaks me the real tuna, not that crap in the can packed in water.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Wanda. That’s Wanda, and if she’s sneaking you tuna, I’m going to kick her perfectly mannered ass. What have I told you about tuna, Calamity? <i>What</i>?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity The Talking Cat lifted her chin. “Oh, blah, blah, blah. Tuna is too rich for my touchy tummy. Blah, blah, blah. Makes me puke all over the carpet in the castle. Blah, blah, blah. You hate cleaning up the chunky effin’ puke. Blah, blah, blah.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Exactly. Now, tell me what’s going on, C, or I’m gonna make you wear those stupid sweaters with the glitter on them from the Martha Stewart Collection at PetSmart every day for a GD week.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity rocked back on her hind paws and gasped in outraged horror. “You wouldn’t! Fuck, those are ugly, you monster.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Sooo would,” the husky voice crooned with a tone screaming devilish glee. “I’d damn well grin from ear to ear while I did that shit, too. Now what’s going on? Spit it the fuck out <i>now</i>.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity rolled to her back, inching along the bricks to scratch her spine, her response rather cavalier, considering the magnitude of the alleged incident. “So there was an accident at a party I’m at, and as a byproduct of this accident, something happened. Not a big deal, really. Nothing I can’t handle.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“<i>What accident</i>, Calamity? And why the fuck are you crashing parties? What did I tell you about that shit?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“As I recall,” Calamity drawled. “You said no <i>wedding</i> crashing. There was nothing about party crashing in general.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Don’t you mince motherfluffin’ words with me, Calamity! Now knock it the shit off and—”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">There was a muffled sound, as though someone was trying to wrestle the phone from Nina, and then a much sweeter, far more affable voice came on the line. “Calamity, honey? It’s Marty. You know the one. The blonde with all the lipstick and hair bleach? Talk to Auntie Marty, Precious, and tell me what happened so we can help. Maybe it’s not such an emergency after all.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“That’s Marty. Super nice, fashionista, not very brainy. A werewolf, by the way,” Calamity whispered as though no one but Poppy could hear. Clearing her throat, the cat continued. “So here’s the prob in a nutshell. I think. Nothing for certain here, mind you, but I think I turned the party DJ into one of my own.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“A cat?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“No, Marty—a familiar. I think I turned the DJ into a familiar.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“<i>You think?</i>” Auntie Marty repeated, her tone still almost as sweet with only a hint of an angry tremor.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">There was more rustling and another muffled, “Give me the damn phone, Ass Sniffer,” before the mean one named Nina was back on the line. “Location!” she bellowed, making Poppy wince. “Now, Calamity!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">As Calamity The Talking Cat rattled off the location, Poppy looked at the inside of her wrist and ran a finger over the raised picture now on her flesh, growing more dazed and confused by the second.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Sure, there was a half-moon tattoo-ish looking thing with a sprinkle of stars across the center of it in a place she had no recollection of ever getting a tattoo. In fact, she didn’t have any tattoos at all. Her mother would kill her if she got a tattoo, but this was what had convinced the cat, er, Calamity, that she was now a familiar.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Whatever one of those was. She vaguely remembered watching <i>Charmed</i> as a teenager and the mention of familiars, but that had been a long time ago, and the definition of one and their place in the witch world were both very vague.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Holding her wrist up, she inspected the mark in question under the light of the streetlamps. Maybe it was one of those temporary tattoos, and this was all a joke? Licking her finger, Poppy scrubbed it over her skin, but the half-moon remained clear as day.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">All right. So this wasn’t some kind of joke.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“What in the fresh hell are you doing?” Calamity asked, dancing over the garden wall, swatting at dust particles.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Trying to figure out if this is all some elaborate prank played on me by my BFF.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“You mean the skinny one dressed up like Kanye West, guzzling that cheap bottle of Boones Farm like it was her last night on earth while she rocked back and forth pressed up to the guy dressed like Kim Kardashian, who was at least ten years younger than her and stoned half out of his gourd?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy smiled briefly. Her pal Mel had never graduated college-level drinking. Even at thirty-four, she was still boozing it up like she was twenty. In fact, she was still dating like she was twenty.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She sighed in resignation. “Yeah, that’s her.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity snorted indignantly, the small puff of air turning to a cloud of condensation. “She couldn’t even make decent appetizers—Triscuits and Vienna sausages in a can do not a party make. Even a heathen troglodyte would turn their nose up at that crap. That in mind, do you really think someone dressed as Kanye West is capable of pulling off some shit like this?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy put her arm back at her side and looked directly into the cat’s mesmerizing eyes, trying to rationalize—or maybe the better word was minimize—what was currently happening.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“What exactly is <i>this shit</i>? I just have a tattoo I don’t remember getting. So what? Lot’s of people have tattoos they don’t remember getting. In fact, half my night-school college class has tattoos they don’t remember getting. Big deal.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity cocked her head as though assessing her. “Well, sure. That’s true. You could sweep this shit under the carpet with some implausible, farfetched explanation. <i>But</i> you’re also talking to a cat like Dr. Doolittle’s spirit took possession of your body. So there’s that. What more proof do you need?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy winced. “Like you said, maybe I’ve been drugged?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity made a clicking noise in the back of her throat. “You won’t be able to use that excuse when you wake up tomorrow, and you’re in the same boat. Because you’ll still be a familiar, and I’ll still be talking.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Pulling off the Paul Stanley Afro wig, Poppy ran her hands through her hair and sighed again. “Okay, so if I’m not drugged, and this isn’t some version of Punk’d complete with sound effects and live animation, what is <i>this shit</i>?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“This shit is bullshit. That’s what this shit is,” a familiar voice from the shadows groused.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">As if out of nowhere, three women appeared, their hair billowing about their shoulders in the frigid winds of Staten Island, their strides confident, their eyes focused and glimmering in the night. Like some new millennium Charlie’s Angels, they strode toward her with confidence, all long legs, beautiful clothing, expensive perfume and glittery jewelry.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Well, except for the dark one. She had long legs and the billowy hair for sure, but she wasn’t dressed like she was going to the same party the other two women were. She wore work boots, a thick black hoodie, low-slung black jeans and a big ol’ scowl on her utterly perfect, scarily pale face.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“You Poppy?” she demand-asked, coming to stand in front of her, arms crossed over her hoodie-covered chest.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She gulped, looking up into this woman’s flashing coal-black eyes. “Will a brutal beating follow if I say yes?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The blonde woman with loads of swirly hair and clacking jewelry nudged the dark-haired woman in the ribs with a frown. “I’m sorry for how abrupt Nina is. You’ll adjust as we move forward. Forget her and focus on me. I’m Marty Flaherty, this ogre is Nina Statleon, and this,” she pointed just over her shoulder to the tall chestnut-haired lady with mahogany highlights, “is Wanda Jefferson. We’re OOPS, and we’re here to help.” Then she smiled, dazzlingly white and perfect.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">As though the wind had re-inflated her sails, Poppy jumped up, putting a defensive hand in front of her. “Help with <i>what</i>? This is all crazy. Look, I don’t know what the cat told you or why it even insisted I call you. Forget about the fact that it can speak and has the ability to use a phone. We’ll get to that later. Now, I looked at your website online, and it says you help people in paranormal crisis. I don’t know if that means you host drug interventions for ghosts—do ghosts become addicts or were they addicts before they died and need ongoing afterlife care? For that matter, what does ‘paranormal crisis’ even mean and why am I supposedly having one?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The woman named Nina reached for Poppy’s wrist so fast, so freakishly fast, Poppy gasped. “I’m gonna ask you to chill the fuck out, okay? Stop gettin’ all jenky with your hands because you don’t want to get defensive with the likes o’ me. Now breathe, Petunia.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">It was almost a relief to have someone give her some direction. Bending at the waist, she let her hands rest on her knees, and her head hang low. “Maybe we should start over and reintroduce ourselves?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina put a hand on the back of her head, keeping her face pointed downward at the driveway. “I said breathe, Rock Star—great costume, by the way. Paul Stanley’s no fucking Barry Manilow, but you killed the makeup. Now, get your shit together. While you do that, I’m gonna kick the living crap out of my damn familiar for ignoring my house rules, and then we’ll make nice, and I’ll explain what we do at OOPS and all that bullshit.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy blinked as the blood rushed to her head in a swoosh of pounding waves. “The cat’s yours?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina snorted. “It sure as fuck wasn’t my idea, but yeah. She’s mine.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“It talks.” She realized she kept saying that, but c’mon! Wasn’t anyone else as in awe of that fact?</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina clucked her tongue in admonishment. “Been down this road, Poppy. You’re getting repetitive. A sure sign you’re playing possum.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She tried to lift her head, but Nina’s hand was like a vise grip, forcing her to keep her eyes level with her feet. “Possum?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Yeah, it’s when everyone says they’re fine while they beat their panic down, bottle it the fuck up or whatever so they can give good face, which always leads to total meltdown. It’s pathetic and ugly, and usually involves tears and loads of the sympathy I’m working really hard to get better at giving because my therapist says I suck ass at it.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“This is your version of sympathy?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“This is me <i>working</i> on being sympathetic. Don’t fuck up my flow.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“So you’ve done this before? This crisis thing?” If that was true, that almost made her feel better. Almost. Though, she still couldn’t quite connect the dots between what had happened back at the house to needing a crisis counselor. Still, she didn’t sense these women were dangerous.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">In fact, she was very clear about the notion they <i>weren’t</i> dangerous. Though, why the feeling was so vivid, she couldn’t say. She possessed her own kind of intuition for sure, but it was a very average sort of intuition. This? Well, this sort of intuition was different.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina’s patted the back of her head before her cool fingers clasped her neck. “More times than Marty’s got lipsticks. Keep breathing.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“I’m really dizzy,” Poppy complained, her spine beginning to ache.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“It’s those pants,” Nina commented. “Always wondered how Stanley managed to squeeze into ’em without popping the top of his head off.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">A soft hand reached down and grabbed Poppy’s, pulling her up and holding her firm when she stumbled from lack of blood flow. “Let her up, Nina.” The lady named Marty righted Poppy and smiled. “So tell us what happened so we best know how to help you.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy stared at the woman with eyes of cornflower blue and hair in more shades of blonde than she even knew existed, and thought about her request. She wasn’t quite sure how this had happened…or if anything had really happened at all.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Marty pressed with a warm smile, “Poppy, honey? How did this happen?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Words escaped her.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">But they didn’t escape the cat. It hopped down from the garden wall and wound its long tail around Marty’s legs. “Ask me, Bleached One. I know how it happened.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">The woman named Wanda bent and scooped the cat up, snuggling her close to her porcelain cheek with a smile. “What kind of mischief have you been into now, Miss Calamity?” she asked, her tone oozing indulgence.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity purred in return, curling into Wanda’s arms. “It was an accident, I swear, Wanda.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina tweaked the cat’s ear, her face stern against the backdrop of the dark night. “Quit coddlin’ her like she’s some baby, Wanda. She was out way past curfew, which is bullshit. She damn well knows better. And lay off the tuna when I’m not lookin’. It makes her puke.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Wanda flapped an irritated hand at Nina before resuming her cuddle with the cat. “Hush. She’s just acting out because you’re so hard on her. Now, tell Auntie Wanda what happened here, Calamity, and I promise there’ll be some warm milk tonight before bed.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity purred and brushed Wanda’s cheek with her paw. “Okay, it went down like this. M to the C to the Guill-i-cudd-E was spinning records at this lame Halloween party—”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“A party you didn’t ask fucking permission to go to,” Nina growled, her black eyes narrowing as she jammed her hands into her hoodie pockets.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity stopped purring and gave Nina a hard glare. “You don’t ask permission to crash a party, Beastmaster. It’s not a goddamn crash if you ask for entry. Anyway, I was chillin’ to Poppy’s beat and I got a little carried away when I broke out my smooth MC Hammer moves. I tripped on a glass of water, knocked it over on the wiring for the speakers, which I’m pretty sure weren’t up to code, and <i>wham</i>! Almost electrocuted Poppy. So I try to do the right thing by knocking her wee sprite ass out of the way with my magic, but I slipped and fell into her, and then we both fell—”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Into the puddle of water!” Poppy spat as she retreated from her fog, the entire episode coming together in a clatter of memory. “That’s exactly what happened! When the cat jumped on me, she dug her claws into my shoulder, and I tripped and fell into the water where the speaker wires were. See?” She pulled her pleather jacket with the stars she’d bedazzled on herself away from her shoulder, pointing to the scratch marks to show the women.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Marty winced, leaning in closer to inspect her wounds.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina swished a hand at Marty, pointing to her purse. “Dig around in your mom bag there and get this kid some Neosporin, Blondie.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">But Poppy waved a hand in dismissive fashion. “I swear I saw stars and a big flash of light. Then there was this tingle…like a weird shiver that raced all along my limbs, and then the cat was freaking out and yelling at me to come outside and call you before someone, I can’t remember who, came and picked me up—”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“That bitch Cecily from Familiar Central,” Calamity interjected with a scoff. “Swear, she can smell a newb from a realm away. She’s gonna show up here and demand to take DJ Puts The Needle On The Record back to the realm so she can claim her as her own, and I’ll be dipped in cow dung before I’ll let that happen.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“<i>Claim me</i>?” Poppy squeaked, scanning the dark neighborhood for this woman named Cecily.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity tilted her head so Wanda could scratch her neck. “Yeah. She gets like frequent flier miles for every newb familiar she sucks into her dark void or some shit. If she gets enough miles, she gets to go to some familiar retreat in Baja. Why the fuck should she get all the miles? I did this to ya, I win. That’s how it works with all familiars who are found or made—in your case, accidentally made—rather than born into the realm, by the way. If one of us finds you, it’s our duty to turn you in. Also, if that crazy hag Cecily gets her hands on you, who knows who the hell you’ll end up with. She just doesn’t care the way I do, and because this was my fault, the least I can do is try to make sure you get a good witch.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text"><i>A witch?</i> She was getting a witch? What did that mean? Did it mean a job that paid money? Because she could use a job that paid money. God, could she ever.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina jammed her hands into her black hoodie pocket. “So let me get this shiz straight. Basically, you zapped a bitch and transferred some of your mojo to her, and that means she’s a familiar now, too? How the hell do you know that for sure?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity harrumphed at Nina. “All you gotta do is look at her wrist. She does have <i>The Mark</i>, Keeper of My Cage. It’s just like the one on the underside of my paw. We all have ’em.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy immediately began to back away, but she held up her wrist so they could all see the half-moon shape, which, as was becoming increasingly clear, apparently represented her status as a familiar.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Hol-ee shitballs,” Nina muttered. “And you’re sure this means she’s like you? I thought familiars were all animals?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“That’s because you don’t listen when I’m trying to school your sorry ass, Half-Breed!” Calamity exclaimed in a tone screaming exasperation. “Familiars come in all sorts of shapes and sizes these days. Animals are the least likely suspects for prying human eyes, but there are plenty of uprights to be had nowadays. You’d know that if you’d just become a little more involved in the community, you dolt!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina snarled, reaching for Calamity, but Wanda took a step back to avoid her.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Suddenly, Poppy couldn’t take it anymore. Scooping up her Paul Stanley wig from the brick wall, she shook it at the group as though it would ward off impending danger.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“What does <i>like her</i> mean?” she shouted. Everything was moving at the speed of light while she was still stuck on the fact that a cat could talk.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity sighed in what sounded like resignation, as though Poppy should know exactly what she was talking about. “It means we gotta get you to Familiar Central so you can get in the good line to get a nice witch. You do <i>not</i> want to wait for them to assign you somebody or you’ll end up like I did, with a leftover with anger management issues. That’s how I landed this crazy half-breed, scowling-at-everything-that-moves bitch on monster truck wheels.” Calamity lifted her jaw in Nina’s direction.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“A leftover…” Poppy muttered, but that didn’t slow Calamity’s tirade even a little.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Now, I admit, I was lazy as fuck, and I should’ve gotten my shit together a lot sooner than I did when my old witch died. I lollygagged, hung out, threw back a bunch of brewskies, watched a lot of shitty reality TV and in general took a break from all the hocus-pocus crap. My old witch was a handful. But who knew I’d end up with the bottom of the barrel just because I was on sabbatical? And to add insult to injury, I ended up with an ogre who’s half <i>vampire</i>. Like I know a friggin’ thing about vampires. But there was no talking the head honcho out of this match made in the inner circle of Hell. So here I am—stuck with a psychotic, nay, violent, half-vampire/half-witch. <i>Forever</i>.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina eyeballed Calamity, and to say she wasn’t exactly pleased was likely an understatement. But oddly, her next words were far more levelheaded than Poppy would have expected, even though her fists were tightly clenched at her sides and her teeth could quite possibly crack from the pressure of grinding them.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“We’re working through some shit. Boundaries, rules, crap like that.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Yeah,” the cat scoffed, curling into Wanda’s protective hold. “Boundaries and crap. That’s what we’re working through. I hope that helps you sleep at night. Oh, wait. You don’t sleep at night, do you, Blood Sucker?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Marty grabbed one of Poppy’s hands and held it to her chest, her warm, smooth skin soothing Poppy, lulling her into a sense of security. Probably a false sense of one, but still a comfort. “To say Calamity was a surprise is an understatement. She and Nina are in the adjustment phase of their relationship—still working out the kinks, you know?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“You mean the phase where she doesn’t fucking do what she’s told?” Nina asked.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity crawled to Wanda’s shoulder and perched herself there. If cats could give dirty looks, she was shooting daggers at Nina. “I’ll say this one more time, Pale Face. I am your <i>guide</i>, your helper, your GD advisor to the magical realm. Not your slave in perpetuity. Got that, you colossal PITA? You can’t tell me what to do. I’m a hundred and fifty years old, not ten!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Wanda chuckled and scratched Calamity under the chin, burying her face in the cat’s neck. “You tell her, Snookiepuss.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina openly gaped at Wanda, her flawless face a tight mask of anger. “What the fuck is wrong with you, Wanda? Why the hell are you taking her side? Stop gettin’ in the middle of our shit, for Christ’s sake! If she didn’t behave like a motherfluffin’ kid, I wouldn’t treat her like one! I’ve been chasin’ after this toddler on steroids since she got here, putting out fire after fucking fire just as she lights another damn match. Now mind your damn P’s and Q’s!”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Marty popped her glossed lips and clapped her hands, a cheerfully forced smile on her face. “Ladies! Knock it off!” she shouted then squared her shoulders and smoothed her faux fur vest over her waistline. “We have no time to spare while the two of you argue over how Nina parents her unruly familiar. We have a job to do. Let’s do it before this Cecily shows up and steals Calamity’s thunder or Poppy ends up with an ogre like Nina for the rest of her days. Now, what do we do next, Calamity?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity hopped from Wanda’s shoulder to the ground and stretched. “It’s a doozy of a ride. You sure you’re up for it?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">As Poppy listened to Calamity’s explanation and watched the drama between the women unfold, she remained quiet, dealing with this new feeling she had. This new <i>certainty</i> was maybe a better word.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She knew, without a shadow of a doubt, what these women spoke was the truth. There was no second-guessing, no quibbling. She instinctually knew the cat really could talk. Nina really was half-vampire, half-witch, and Poppy really did have to get to this place called Familiar Central.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She didn’t quite understand this innate sense of the truth; she wasn’t even sure how she was keeping from freaking out about the fact that Nina was a vampire-witch.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Maybe that would come later? For now, she had to take care of this. There was a pressing urgency in her gut that said she needed to trust her instincts.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Does this familiar thing pay?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Like in money?” Calamity asked, cocking her round head.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She needed money. It wasn’t likely Mel was going to pay her now after she’d obliterated her sound system. To make everything worse, she was surely on the verge of being booted from her apartment if she didn’t come up with three months’ rent by next week.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Old Mr. Rush, her landlord, was an understanding guy, a great guy, in fact. But he couldn’t live on nothing any more than she could. And that’s what she’d been paid for spending almost four months on the road in a show that had such low attendance, the audiences were all but taking naps.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text"><i>Nothing.</i></p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">That son of a bitch Randall Cranston had run off with what little profit they’d made, leaving her and the rest of the cast high and dry.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She hated leaving her apartment and all the incredible people who’d been her neighbors for almost five years now, but she’d come to the realization her choices were growing slimmer by the day.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She’d even considered going back to her parents in Cincinnati. While she loved them, she didn’t necessarily want to live with them and their paneled walls and meals with a <i>Wheel of Fortune</i>/<i>Jeopardy!</i> double whammy anymore.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">So this was a possible answer to all her financial problems.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Besides, she’d done crazier things for cash.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Finally, she said, “Well, yeah, I mean in money. I have to eat.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Not in money, no. But it does include room and board. Er, mostly…”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity’s vague answer went by the wayside, almost unheard after the words “room and board.” Looking down at the cat, Poppy nodded with total calm. “I’m ready.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">For the first time since she’d met her, Nina grinned as she scanned Poppy’s face, her glimmering eyes searching. “Holy fuck. You’re serious?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">She was. She didn’t know why she was, but she was. “I am. Let’s go.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina gazed down at Calamity and pointed a long finger at her. “Then let’s get it on before she comes down off her high o’ crazy and changes her mind.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Did you bring your wand?” she asked Nina, stretching a paw forward.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Nina made a face, the hard lines of her jaw tightening. “No, I didn’t bring my fucking wand. That shit is like holding a hand grenade. I never know whether I’m going to blow crap up or turn it into a friggin’ animated ice sculpture. I’m not good enough at it yet to carry it around full time. Christ, it was much easier just being a vampire. All I had to do was flash my fangs and shit got done.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity clucked her tongue. “What have I told you about your wand, you beast? Ya gotta keep it with you at all damn times. It’s like leaving an organ behind.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“I don’t have any organs.”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">“Okay, it’s like leaving your sunscreen behind. Crucially important. I’ve only told you that a bafrillion times, Nina. You do know you just made this shit much harder?”</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Poppy blinked. Nina had a wand? “Why does that make shit harder?” she asked.</p>
<p class="P_Body_Text">Calamity snorted. “Hold one minute, and I’ll show you…”</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-09-04 04:16:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 04:16:29 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-04 04:16:31 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-04 04:16:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:16:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:16:39 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:16:59 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:17:00 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-04 04:17:00 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1c7e34a7
