2023-09-04 04:39:55 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-09-04 04:39:55 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-04 04:40:21 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-04 04:40:21 INFO  - Session id - 390c1dfe5752283b040a106aa96f164180327a65
2023-09-04 04:40:21 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-04 04:40:22 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:23 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-04 04:40:24 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-04 04:40:24 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:24 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-04 04:40:26 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-04 04:40:26 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:40:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-04 04:40:30 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:30 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-04 04:40:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:31 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:32 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:34 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-04 04:40:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:34 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:35 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:36 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:37 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-09-04 04:40:37 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: Snow Crash Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: The Martian Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Unprotected Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@4a13b1d8
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Chocolate Cream Pie Murder Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@7589cc54
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 7
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:40:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-09-04 04:40:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 04:40:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-04 04:40:41 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:40:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:40:46 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-04 04:41:07 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:41:07 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-04 04:41:07 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:41:31 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-04 04:41:51 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:41:53 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-04 04:41:53 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-09-04 04:41:53 INFO  - randomBookName: The Dorrance Domain
2023-09-04 04:41:53 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 04:41:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Dorrance Domain'
2023-09-04 04:41:56 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 04:41:58 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 04:41:59 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:42:00 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:07 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 04:42:07 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:42:07 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:08 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-04 04:42:09 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:09 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-04 04:42:09 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-04 04:42:26 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-09-04 04:42:27 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:27 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-09-04 04:42:27 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:28 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-09-04 04:42:28 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-04 04:42:28 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-04 04:42:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 04:42:30 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>The Dorrance Domain-Chapter I: Cooped up</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9788726895032.css" />
    
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  

<body>
   <div class="galley">
      <div class="body Chapter" id="Chapter1">
         <div class="title-block" id="title-block1">
            <p class="title-num" id="title-num1"><span class="title-num-label">Chapter
      </span> I
   </p>
            <h1 id="h12">Cooped up
   </h1>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara" id="p9">"I <i>wish</i> we didn't have to live in a boarding-house!" said Dorothy Dorrance, flinging herself into an armchair, in her grandmother's room, one May afternoon, about six o'clock.</p>
         <p id="p10">She made this remark almost every afternoon, about six o'clock, whatever the month or the season, and as a rule, little attention was paid to it. But to-day her sister Lilian responded, in a sympathetic voice,</p>
         <p id="p11">"<i>I</i> wish we didn't have to live in a boarding-house!"</p>
         <p id="p12">Whereupon Leicester, Lilian's twin brother, mimicking his sister's tones, dolefully repeated, "I wish <i>we</i> didn't have to live in a boarding-house!"</p>
         <p id="p13">And then Fairy, the youngest Dorrance, and the last of the quartet, sighed forlornly, "I wish we didn't have to live in a <i>boarding-house</i>!"</p>
         <p id="p14">There was another occupant of the room. A gentle white-haired old lady, whose sweet face and dainty fragile figure had all the effects of an ivory miniature, or a painting on porcelain.</p>
         <p id="p15">"My dears," she said, "I'm sure I wish you didn't."</p>
         <p id="p16">"Don't look like that, grannymother," cried Dorothy, springing to kiss the troubled face of the dear old lady. "I'd live here a million years, rather than have you look so worried about it. And anyway, it wouldn't be so bad, if it weren't for the dinners."</p>
         <p id="p17">"I don't mind the dinners," said Leicester, "in fact I would be rather sorry not to have them. What I mind is the cramped space, and the shut-up-in-your-own-room feeling. I spoke a piece in school last week, and I spoke it awful well, too, because I just meant it. It began,'I want free life, and I want fresh air,' and that's exactly what I do want. I wish we lived in Texas, instead of on Manhattan Island. Texas has a great deal more room to the square yard, and I don't believe people are crowded down there."</p>
         <p id="p18">"There can't be more room to a square yard in one place than another," said Lilian, who was practical.</p>
         <p id="p19">"I mean back yards and front yards and side yards,—and I don't care whether they're square or not," went on Leicester, warming to his subject. "My air-castle is situated right in the middle of the state of Texas, and it's the only house in the state."</p>
         <p id="p20">"Mine is in the middle of a desert island," said Lilian; "it's so much nicer to feel sure that you can get to the water, no matter in what direction you walk away from your house."</p>
         <p id="p21">"A desert island would be nice," said Leicester; "it would be more exciting than Texas, I suppose, on account of the wild animals. But then in Texas, there are wild men and wild animals both."</p>
         <p id="p22">"I like plenty of room, too," said Dorothy, "but I want it inside my house as well as out. Since we are choosing, I think I'll choose to live in the Madison Square Garden, and I'll have it moved to the middle of a western prairie."</p>
         <p id="p23">"Well, children," said Mrs. Dorrance, "your ideas are certainly big enough, but you must leave the discussion of them now, and go to your small cramped boarding-house bedrooms, and make yourselves presentable to go down to your dinner in a boarding-house dining-room."</p>
         <p id="p24">This suggestion was carried out in the various ways that were characteristic of the Dorrance children.</p>
         <p id="p25">Dorothy, who was sixteen, rose from her chair and humming a waltz tune, danced slowly and gracefully across the room. The twins, Lilian and Leicester, fell off of the arms of the sofa, where they had been perched, scrambled up again, executed a sort of war-dance and then dashed madly out of the door and down the hall.</p>
         <p id="p26">Fairy, the twelve year old, who lived up to her name in all respects, flew around the room, waving her arms, and singing in a high soprano, "Can I wear my pink sash? Can I wear my pink sash?"</p>
         <p id="p27">"Yes, yes," said Mrs. Dorrance, "you may wear anything you like, if you'll only keep still a minute. You children are too boisterous for a boarding-house. You <i>ought</i> to be in the middle of a desert or somewhere. You bewilder me!"</p>
         <p id="p28">But about fifteen minutes later it was four decorous young Dorrances who accompanied their grandmother to the dining-room. Not that they wanted to be sedate, or enjoyed being quiet, but they were well-bred children in spite of their rollicking temperaments. They knew perfectly well how to behave properly, and always did it when the occasion demanded.</p>
         <p id="p29">And, too, the atmosphere of Mrs. Cooper's dining-room was an assistance rather than a bar to the repression of hilarity.</p>
         <p id="p30">The Dorrances sat at a long table, two of the children on either side of their grandmother, and this arrangement was one of their chief grievances.</p>
         <p id="p31">"If we could only have a table to ourselves," Leicester often said, "it wouldn't be so bad. But set up side by side, like the teeth in a comb, cheerful conversation is impossible."</p>
         <p id="p32">"But, my boy," his grandmother would remonstrate, "you must learn to converse pleasantly with those who sit opposite you. You can talk with your sisters at other times."</p>
         <p id="p33">So Leicester tried, but it is exceedingly difficult for a fourteen year old boy to adapt himself to the requirements of polite conversation.</p>
         <p id="p34">On the evening of which we are speaking, his efforts, though well meant, were unusually unsuccessful.</p>
         <p id="p35">Exactly opposite Leicester sat Mr. Bannister, a ponderous gentleman, both physically and mentally. He was a bachelor, and his only idea regarding children was that they should be treated jocosely. He also had his own ideas of jocose treatment.</p>
         <p id="p36">"Well, my little man," he said, smiling broadly at Leicester, "did you go to school to-day?"</p>
         <p id="p37">As he asked this question every night at dinner, not even excepting Saturdays and Sundays, Leicester felt justified in answering only, "Yes, sir."</p>
         <p id="p38">"That's nice; and what did you learn?"</p>
         <p id="p39">As this question invariably followed the other, Leicester was not wholly unprepared for it. But the discussion of air-castles in Texas, or on a prairie, had made the boy a little impatient of the narrow dining-room, and the narrow table, and even of Mr. Bannister, though he was by no means of narrow build.</p>
         <p id="p40">"I learned my lessons," he replied shortly, though there was no rudeness in his tone.</p>
         <p id="p41">"Tut, tut, my little man," said Mr. Bannister, playfully shaking a fat finger at him, "don't be rude."</p>
         <p id="p42">"No, sir, I won't," said Leicester, with such an innocent air of accepting a general bit of good advice, that Mr. Bannister was quite discomfited.</p>
         <p id="p43">Grandma Dorrance looked at Leicester reproachfully, and Mrs. Hill, who was a sharp-featured, sharp-spoken old lady, and who also sat on the other side of the table, said severely, to nobody in particular, "Children are not brought up now as they were in my day."</p>
         <p id="p44">This had the effect of silencing Leicester, for the three older Dorrances had long ago decided that it was useless to try to talk to Mrs. Hill. Even if you tried your best to be nice and pleasant, she was sure to say something so irritating, that you just <i>had</i> to lose your temper.</p>
         <p id="p45">But Fairy did not subscribe to this general decision. Indeed, Fairy's chief characteristic was her irrepressible loquacity. So much trouble had this made, that she had several times been forbidden to talk at the dinner-table at all. Then Grandma Dorrance would feel sorry for the dolefully mute little girl, and would lift the ban, restricting her, however, to not more than six speeches during any one meal.</p>
         <p id="p46">Fairy kept strict account, and never exceeded the allotted number, but she made each speech as long as she possibly could, and rarely stopped until positively interrupted.</p>
         <p id="p47">So she took it upon herself to respond to Mrs. Hill's remark, and at the same time demonstrate her loyalty to her grandmother.</p>
         <p id="p48">"I'm sure, Mrs. Hill," Fairy began, "that nobody could bring up children better than my grannymother. She is the best children bring-upper in the whole world. I don't know how your grandmother brought you up,—or perhaps you had a mother,—some people think they're better than grandmothers. I don't know; I never had a mother, only a grandmother, but she's just the best ever, and if us children aren't good, it's our fault and not hers. She says we're boist'rous, and I 'spect we are. Mr. Bannister says we're rude, and I 'spect we are; but none of these objectionaries is grandma's fault!" Fairy had a way of using long words when she became excited, and as she knew very few real ones she often made them up to suit herself. And all her words, long or short came out in such a torrent of enthusiasm and emphasis, and with such a degree of rapidity that it was a difficult matter to stop her. So on she went. "So it's all right, Mrs. Hill, but when we don't behave just first-rate, or just as children did in your day, please keep a-remembering to blame us and not grandma. You see," and here Fairy's speech assumed a confidential tone, "we don't have room enough. We want free life and we want fresh air, and then I 'spect we'd be more decorious."</p>
         <p id="p49">"That will do, Fairy," said Mrs. Dorrance, looking at her gravely.</p>
         <p id="p50">"Yes'm," said Fairy, smiling pleasantly, "that'll do for one."</p>
         <p id="p51">"And that makes two! now you've had two speeches, Fairy," said her brother, teasingly.</p>
         <p id="p52">"I have not," said Fairy, "and an explanationary speech doesn't count!"</p>
         <p id="p53">"Yes, it does," cried Lilian, "and that makes three!"</p>
         <p id="p54">"It doesn't, does it, grandma?" pleaded Fairy, lifting her big blue eyes to her grandmother's face.</p>
         <p id="p55">Mrs. Dorrance looked helpless and a little bewildered, but she only said, "Please be quiet, Fairy; I might like to talk a little, myself."</p>
         <p id="p56">"Oh, that's all right, grandma dear," said Fairy, placidly; "I know how it is to feel conversationary myself."</p>
         <p id="p57">The children's mother had died when Fairy was born, and her father had given her the name of Fairfax because there had always been a Fairfax Dorrance in his family for many generations. To be sure it had always before been a boy baby who was christened Fairfax, but the only boy in this family had been named Leicester; and so, one Fairfax Dorrance was a girl. From the time she was old enough to show any characteristics at all, she had been fairy-like in every possible way. Golden hair, big blue eyes and a cherub face made her a perfect picture of child beauty. Then she was so light and airy, so quick of motion and speech, and so immaculately dainty in her dress and person, that Fairy seemed to be the only fitting name for her. No matter how much she played rollicking games, her frock never became rumpled or soiled; and the big white bow which crowned her mass of golden curls always kept its shape and position even though its wearer turned somersaults. For Fairy was by no means a quiet or sedate child. None of the Dorrances were that. And the youngest was perhaps the most headstrong and difficult to control. But though impetuous in her deeds and mis-deeds, her good impulses were equally sudden, and she was always ready to apologize or make amends for her frequent naughtiness.</p>
         <p id="p58">And so after dinner, she went to Mrs. Hill, and said with a most engaging smile, "I'm sorry if I 'fended you, and I hope I didn't. You see I didn't mean to speak so much, and right at the dinner table, too, but I just <i>have</i> to stand up for my grannymother. She's so old, and so ladylike that she can't stand up for herself. And I was 'fraid you mightn't understand, so I thought I'd 'pologize. Is it all right?"</p>
         <p id="p59">Fairy looked up into Mrs. Hill's face with such angelic eyes and pleading smile, that even that dignified lady unbent a little.</p>
         <p id="p60">"Yes, my dear," she said; "it's all right for you to stand up for your grandmother, as you express it. But you certainly do talk too much for such a little girl."</p>
         <p id="p61">"Yes'm," said Fairy, contritely, "I know I do. It's my upsetting sin; but somehow I can't help it. My head seems to be full of words, and they just keep spilling out. Don't you ever talk too much, ma'am?"</p>
         <p id="p62">"No; I don't think I do."</p>
         <p id="p63">"You ought to be very thankful," said Fairy, with a sigh; "it is an awful affliction. Why once upon a time——"</p>
         <p id="p64">"Come, Fairy," said Mrs. Dorrance; "say good-night to Mrs. Hill, and come up-stairs with me."</p>
         <p id="p65">"Yes, grandma, I'm coming. Good-night, Mrs. Hill; I'm sorry I have to go just now 'cause I was just going to tell you an awful exciting story. But perhaps to-morrow——"</p>
         <p id="p66">"Come, Fairy," said Mrs. Dorrance; "come at once!" And at last the gentle old lady succeeded in capturing her refractory granddaughter, and led the dancing sprite away to her own room.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
2023-09-04 04:42:30 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 04:42:30 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-04 04:42:31 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-04 04:42:33 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:35 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:36 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:37 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:42:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:42:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:42:39 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 04:43:00 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 04:43:00 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-04 04:43:00 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1c7e34a7
