2023-09-04 05:01:18 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-09-04 05:01:18 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-04 05:01:45 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-04 05:01:45 INFO  - Session id - b17ee3a773ae2376b0c18a8ad46321c281c2e110
2023-09-04 05:01:45 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-04 05:01:45 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:47 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-04 05:01:48 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-04 05:01:48 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:48 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-04 05:01:49 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-04 05:01:49 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 05:01:50 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-04 05:01:53 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:53 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-04 05:01:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:57 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:01:59 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-04 05:01:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:01 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:02 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:03 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-09-04 05:02:03 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Chocolate Cream Pie Murder Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@1d414228
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Unprotected Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@7c8ef1d1
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: Baby Carter Distributor: BiblioBoard
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: The Martian Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: Snow Crash Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 8
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 05:02:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-09-04 05:02:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-04 05:02:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-04 05:02:08 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:13 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:02:13 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-04 05:02:34 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:02:34 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-04 05:02:34 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:02:56 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-04 05:03:16 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:17 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-04 05:03:17 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-09-04 05:03:17 INFO  - randomBookName: The Secret Next Door
2023-09-04 05:03:18 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 05:03:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Secret Next Door'
2023-09-04 05:03:21 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-04 05:03:23 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 05:03:24 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:03:24 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:32 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-04 05:03:32 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:03:32 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:33 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-04 05:03:34 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:35 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-04 05:03:35 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-04 05:03:51 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-09-04 05:03:52 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:52 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-09-04 05:03:52 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:03:53 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-09-04 05:03:53 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-04 05:03:53 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-04 05:03:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 05:03:55 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>SecretNextDoor-7</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:2d1de702-f41f-4168-9ebe-1792dd209203" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="SecretNextDoor-7" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 class="cn" id="_idParaDest-6"><a id="_idTextAnchor005"></a>Chapter Two</h1>
			<p class="pf">Bonnie Sloan sat behind the wheel of her Porsche and let her head fall back against the headrest. Anxiety clawed at her throat. She tried to breathe past it, swallow it down, but it felt tight, an insistence in her body that wanted to take flight into a full-blown panic.</p>
			<p class="p">She closed her eyes and tried to force her mind off the nasty particulars of the city council meeting she had just left and onto something more pleasant, calm—anything relaxing.</p>
			<p class="p">She tried to imagine herself on the beach in Maui eight years ago. She and her husband, Bennet, had rented that condo with the wide balcony that directly overlooked Kaanapali Beach, where her two sons had spent endless carefree hours playing in the sand and surf. George had been nine, Elijah only five—Gracie’s birth was still three years into the then distant future. Their lives had been so different then—simpler, really. Bonnie imagined herself on that plush teal-and-white-striped beach towel, the warm sand radiating up through her body and unwinding her every constricted muscle.</p>
			<p class="p">But Carl Wayland’s red and angry face swam up into her vision and interrupted her thoughts. “If you think for one second that I’ll allow that monstrosity to be erected in my backyard, you’ll be hearing from my lawyer!”</p>
			<p class="p">A massive wave of anxiety swept away her attempt at remembering happier times at the beach. Bonnie opened her eyes and stared out across the dark and deserted school parking lot she was hiding in. Tonight’s council meeting was the first public opportunity the community had to voice their thoughts about the Extreme Golf center breaking ground just west of The Enclave’s Highlands development, but Carl Wayland and his coalition of dissenters and complainers had been making their thoughts loud and clear all over The Enclave neighborhood’s Facebook page ever since the Extreme Golf land-use proposal had been filed with the city and made public three months ago.</p>
			<p class="p">Carl lived in the Highlands part of The Enclave—same as Bonnie. In fact, their multimillion-dollar homes were only one lot apart. Both their yards backed up to the third fairway of the Enclave golf course and enjoyed stunning and unobstructed views of the Rocky Mountains.</p>
			<p class="p">Views that would be forever altered as soon as Extreme Golf began erecting their two-hundred-foot steel beams and the netting system designed to catch golf balls flying from their five-story platform. And that was just during the day. At night, their floodlights would be seen for miles, completely obliterating the Highlands’s current serene atmosphere—and it wasn’t going to help the property values, either.</p>
			<p class="p">Bonnie understood Carl’s anger; after all, her house was going to be just as impacted as his. But as the elected city council official for Ward Eight, she couldn’t simply use her vote to the benefit of the wealthiest constituents with the largest houses and best views in the city.</p>
			<p class="p">Because on the opposite side from Carl were all the residents who really wanted Extreme Golf to move in. For the family-friendly entertainment they would get from launching golf balls from the fifth-floor decks while music blared and drinks were served, yes, but also for the tax revenue that would flow in for the city.</p>
			<p class="p">And, of course, Bonnie understood implicitly that many of her less wealthy constituents would derive some pleasure from sticking it to the Sloans and the Waylands of the world. She knew many residents saw Carl as an elitist who felt entitled to his multimillion-dollar unobstructed views, even though he did not personally own the land between his second-floor balcony and the Rocky Mountains. She and Bennet were both counting on Carl Wayland not being able to drum up much sympathy for his fight against Extreme Golf.</p>
			<p class="p">But Bonnie also understood that Carl Wayland had influential connections, deep pockets, and, as a retired CEO, nothing but time. Squashing the development of Extreme Golf in <span class="i">his backyard</span> was now his full-time job.</p>
			<p class="p">And even though Bonnie would be staring, daily, at the same monstrosity while standing at her kitchen sink, sitting on her back patio, or gazing out her second-story master bedroom window, she could not let Carl Wayland stop this deal. No matter how much she personally would like to allow that to happen.</p>
			<p class="p">She had more at stake than a fabulous view and tens of thousands in resale value from her house.</p>
			<p class="p">Bennet was counting on her to shepherd the Extreme Golf deal through.</p>
			<p class="p">Bonnie checked the time on her phone: eight thirty. She needed to get home and see if the kids had eaten the dinner she left for them and if Bennet was home from work—the news about Carl and tonight’s meeting was going to send him over the edge.</p>
			<p class="p">She took a deep breath, started her car back up, and pulled out of the protective nighttime shadows of The Enclave’s K–8 charter school.</p>
			<p class="p">Whenever she was feeling overwhelmed and extremely stressed out, like right now, the darkest reaches of the school’s parking lot were where she always came to hide and think. She had discovered it entirely by accident, years ago, when her middle child, Elijah, was in second grade. Back then, she’d been president of the PTA. Often the first to arrive and the last to leave the school during every function.</p>
			<p class="p">It had been the October parent-teacher conferences, and she and the rest of the PTA were running the bookfair in the school’s library. Sometime after eight, she had walked out to the parking lot with the last few teachers in the building. By the time she loaded up her trunk, got behind the wheel of her car, and discovered that her battery was dead, everyone else had already pulled out of sight.</p>
			<p class="p">The very first emotion that hit her was fear. She was a woman alone, in the dark, in a car that wouldn’t start. Everything about her life up to this moment had trained her to believe she was on the verge of being raped, abducted, or, at the very least, robbed. Never mind that she was in the neighborhood she’d lived in, at the time, for fifteen years. Sitting in her car, doors locked, behind tinted windows so dark no one could see her, especially at night.</p>
			<p class="p">Bonnie had sat back in her seat and picked up her phone, ready to call Bennet to come rescue her, when another feeling hit her. An emotion so foreign to her current life, she almost couldn’t name it.</p>
			<p class="p">Calm.</p>
			<p class="p">Maybe it wasn’t <span class="i">exactly</span> calm, but it was near enough to a sense of well-being, something she hadn’t experienced in over a decade, that it grabbed her attention.</p>
			<p class="p">She was a woman, alone in the dark.</p>
			<p class="p">And no one could see her.</p>
			<p class="p">Bonnie had stopped dialing her husband and put her phone down.</p>
			<p class="p">She sat back in her seat, feeling the muscles that normally roped across her shoulder blades release a fraction of an inch, and noticed how the glow of light from the streetlamps in front of the school didn’t reach to the farthest corners of the parking lot. She felt invisible to the outside world, and it felt good. Regularly, eyes followed her everywhere she went.</p>
			<p class="p">At five foot eight, with a slender build, C-cup breasts, and a ballet dancer’s ass, Bonnie Sloan knew she was a beautiful woman. She held herself erect, wore the right clothes, drove a luxury car, and occupied the home that, situated off the third fairway on a slight rise, was visible to everyone entering The Enclave from the main entrance. Her home was the crown jewel of the Enclave development.</p>
			<p class="p">Eyes, they were on her, always. Even in her own home, between Bennet and her three kids, rarely was there ever a moment or a space to herself.</p>
			<p class="p">But not here. In this one dark parking space where no one would ever look for her. Here she could, and had, eaten an entire Big Mac, large fries, and a regular Coke. She slouched, belched, and often even passed gas without giving it any thought at all. No one was watching, ever, as long as she was alone, here in the dark.</p>
			<p class="p">So when tonight’s city council meeting was essentially commandeered by Carl Wayland and several of her other neighbors, she knew she’d need to make a stop before heading home and sharing the news with Bennet.</p>
			<p class="p">The Extreme Golf development was not going to go off without a hitch. And if she was going to pull off her run for the Senate, she and Bennet were going to have to be smart, get out in front of the growing public conflict on the right side, and play all their cards well.</p>
			<p class="p">Because if Carl Wayland dug around deep enough to discover the truth that he already suspected, it would ruin her and her family.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-09-04 05:03:55 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-04 05:03:55 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-04 05:03:57 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-04 05:03:58 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:04:00 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:04:02 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:04:02 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:04:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:04:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:04:05 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-04 05:04:26 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-04 05:04:26 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-04 05:04:26 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1c7e34a7
