2023-07-18 13:04:34 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-07-18 13:04:34 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-07-18 13:05:05 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-07-18 13:05:05 INFO  - Session id - cec32cd1dc15b69190c89e8d72d5acef4280b85f
2023-07-18 13:05:05 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-07-18 13:05:05 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:07 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-07-18 13:05:08 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-07-18 13:05:08 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:09 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-07-18 13:05:11 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-07-18 13:05:11 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 13:05:14 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-07-18 13:05:18 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:19 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-07-18 13:05:19 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:23 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:24 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:27 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-07-18 13:05:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:29 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:30 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:32 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-07-18 13:05:32 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-07-18 13:05:33 INFO  - bookName: Apples Never Fall Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 13:05:33 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-07-18 13:05:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 13:05:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-07-18 13:05:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 13:05:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-07-18 13:05:39 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:05:45 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:05:46 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-07-18 13:06:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:06:09 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-07-18 13:06:09 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:06:30 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-07-18 13:06:50 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:06:52 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-07-18 13:06:52 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-07-18 13:06:52 INFO  - randomBookName: Where I Come From
2023-07-18 13:06:54 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-18 13:06:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Where I Come From'
2023-07-18 13:06:57 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-18 13:07:01 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-18 13:07:03 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:07:03 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:07:11 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-18 13:07:12 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:07:12 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:07:13 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-18 13:07:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:07:16 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-07-18 13:07:16 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-07-18 13:07:47 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-07-18 13:07:48 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:07:49 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-07-18 13:07:49 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:07:50 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-07-18 13:07:51 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-18 13:07:51 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-18 13:07:51 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-07-18 13:07:52 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-18 13:07:53 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<title>Where I Come From: Life Lessons from a Latino Chef</title>
<link href="../styles/9781683356790.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:ffba307a-16d9-4869-abbb-9749c1941e3b" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="introduction">
<header>
<h2 class="h2c" id="intro"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ix" title="ix"></span><span class="smallcaps">INTRODUCTION</span></h2>
</header>
<p class="noindent">Cinnamon. Chocolate. Chile. I’d tasted them hundreds, thousands of times. But never had these flavors seemed so profound as they did to me one night long ago in a Oaxacan cemetery. So grounding to the world around me. To the <em>earth</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">The year was 2000, the start of the new millennium, and I was twenty-four years old. Mexico was in the throes of its annual Day of the Dead celebration—the Día de los Muertos—when I arrived. It was fall, but in Oaxaca the temperature can still climb to nearly 80 degrees during the day, and everywhere you turn are the blindingly vibrant colors of a warmer season. Bold sugar skulls and folks in skeleton costumes were a stark contrast to the somber faces and black shrouds I’d been told, growing up in the States, were more suitable for anything related to death.</p>
<p class="indent">But this was Mexico, where color defines the culture—from the characters that populate the city streets and countryside, to building facades and diverse natural landscapes, to the language and choice turns of phrase. And the food. Always the food. Rusty, dried <em>guajillo</em> peppers. Verdant sprigs of curled cilantro. Flavors that take days to develop, layered with wildly complex blends of spices and ingredients, techniques that take years to master, so that every dish pops and dances on the palate. There is nothing about the food of Mexico that is dull or muted.</p>
<p class="indent">Cinnamon. Chocolate. Chile. <em>Earth</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">There comes a moment when cultural and personal identity collide. When <em>who</em> you are ceases to be exclusive of, or regardless of, <em>what</em> you are and where you come from. When you stop trying to rebel against being typecast or stereotyped, and start to feel an ancient homing system seizing at something inside you that you never knew existed. Something in your bones, calling out to the earth or the cosmos, or to other human beings cut from the same cloth. Living or dead. Past or present. Even future.</p>
<p class="indent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_x" title="x"></span>Food is the purest reflection of the Mexican people. As a bicultural Mexican American kid, I had been exposed to that sensibility, but I was about to find out, in the midst of the chaotic celebration, exactly what being Mexican was really all about.</p>
<p class="star">* * *</p>
<p class="noindent">We had flown in that fall to film a new show, <em>Taste of Mexico</em>, for Food Network. It was a wild experience, a no-holds-barred culinary adventure, just me and a production crew eating our way through the country my ancestors come from, getting a crash course in culture and cuisine. For as much as I saw, cooked, and tasted, though, there was one thing I was really hungry to get my hands on from the minute we landed: traditional <em>mole</em>. It’s become a sort of unofficial national dish of Mexico, and today versions of it appear on Mexican restaurant menus from San Diego to South Dakota.</p>
<p class="indent">But the canon of mole variations is so much more vast than most diners recognize. It can be made from almonds or pumpkin seeds. It can be yellow or green or red or pitch black. There are legends about its invention, one tale including nuns, another involving an Aztec king. Regardless, the constant is the sauce’s complexity. Some versions use thirty or more ingredients, the spices and peppers carefully toasted and ground together, most often by hand, in a <em>molcajete</em>—a sort of Mesoamerican mortar and pestle. I’d made it before and tasted it in a ton of places, including my mom’s kitchen, but I was looking to find the inspiration for all those interpretations. Two regions lay claim to creating mole sauce, one being Puebla. The other was the final destination on our production schedule—Oaxaca.</p>
<p class="indent">Mole is a major part of the Día de los Muertos holiday. For the show, we planned to visit a cemetery where, after dark, families congregate around gravesites to eat and dance and commune with the dead. It’s an unbelievable scene, and we were going to capture the procession, the people, and the custom in full swing. It was all sounding super exciting, but of course, above all, I couldn’t wait for the food.</p>
<p class="indent">Before we could begin our own tasting tour of the celebration, we had to actually get there. We were a small crew, and when we arrived in our van, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xi" title="xi"></span>we were stopped and told no vehicles were allowed. The cemetery was at the top of a massive hill, and now we’d have to park about a mile away and haul our gear up this impossible incline. I’d never shot at night before that trip. The lighting rigs were extensive, and—I was learning—damn heavy. We were rounding out weeks of travel, and everyone was exhausted and frustrated by this new development. In those early days of on-location shoots, I realized enthusiasm can only carry you so far when you’re running on fumes, and I was starting to fantasize about my bed back in New York.</p>
<p class="indent">But then, as we were scaling the path, alongside families in costume, carrying flowers and candy and bottles of mezcal, the sun set, and from a distance we could see the revelers. Candles encircling the cemetery gave the summit a haloed appearance. It was a beacon, totally aglow against the inky Mexican sky. Maybe it was the cool air that had come along with dusk, or maybe it was the spirits being summoned from their own grueling paths passing through us, but I had chills. If those souls could make the journey from <em>mictlan</em>—the Aztec beyond, a sort of spiritual in-between—I could make it through this fucking climb.</p>
<p class="indent">When we finally arrived at the peak, the party was well underway. The path was lit with more candles to guide us, but we really didn’t need them. We easily could have followed our senses—the aromas of <em>masa</em> cooking on the <em>comal</em> and warming cinnamon from spiced hot chocolate, caramelized sweet fruits candied in syrups, piquant peppers, and smoke and sizzle—all emanating from about a dozen different food stalls that lined the procession path on either side. Everywhere we turned folks were set up, serving juices and tequila, making tacos, sharing sweets, eating, and drinking.</p>
<p class="indent">We were rejuvenated by the otherworldly energy of the place. We set up and began making our way through the scene, documenting as we went along. We were trying a little bit of everything, and I was being handed a glass of tequila when a fifty-gallon drum caught my eye. It was hollowed out and situated over an open fire. Inside, ears of corn were waiting to become <em>esquites</em>—a traditional Mexican street food.</p>
<p class="indent">I approached and watched as people in front of us were served. The old man at the drum looked like he was about 120 years old, and he was sweating in the night, pulling up ear after ear upon request. With fingers that looked <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xii" title="xii"></span>as if they’d never been clean of the soot that covered them now, he pulled off some ninja move barely visible to the naked eye. He impaled cobs on a convenient stick, slathered each with <em>crema</em>, tons of <em>cotija</em> cheese, and chile, and passed them off into hungry crowds.</p>
<p class="indent">When I finally had mine in hand, at first I made an attempt to be civilized. This was for television, after all. But in evaluating ways to attack the thing, I realized there was no earthly way to be delicate about it. <em>Fuck it</em>, I thought, and dove in for a massive bite—and I was rewarded. Smoky, charred kernels detonated with sweetness underneath this rich, creamy, salty, spicy coating. It was transcendent. It was visceral. My nose ran and my face was covered in cream and char. And I couldn’t have been happier. As a trained chef, I could tell the camera this had everything a dish needed from a technical perspective—acid, heat, salt, fat, sweetness, texture—even though it wasn’t prepared by some hotshot in a New York City kitchen. But as a human being, I knew there was no way to describe its perfection and really do it justice.</p>
<p class="indent">Looking around at the celebration, I could see why someone would come back from the dead—and after that corn, I could have died a happy man. But I still had unfinished business: my mole. And it wasn’t hard to find. I followed the path until I came to a Zapotec woman, and before her was a big, beautiful ceramic pot with a deeply colored paste percolating within. The Zapotec is a matriarchal society, led by strong women who manage everything from the economy to the cooking. Having been raised by a fierce Mexican mother, I was entirely at home with the archetype. But there was something a little unsettling about the way this particular woman looked at me when I approached her. It was as if she could sense I was searching for something—like she could actually see past the cameras and the lights, straight into my soul.</p>
<p class="indent">She had been making tortillas with handfuls of fresh masa she’d pressed into the scorching <em>comal</em>. Slowly, ceremonially, she reached for one. Wordlessly, she dipped it directly into the mole and handed it to me, past the other partiers patiently queuing up for their turn. I took the tortilla and waited for a moment, wondering where the rest of it was. Where was the chicken thigh? Where was the substance?</p>
<p class="indent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiii" title="xiii"></span>She must have sensed my hesitation. Without speaking, she indicated for me to eat it. As if to say, <em>No, baby—this is the essence right here. This is Mexico, right in your hands</em>. What followed when I finally took her silent instruction was nothing less than an epiphany. It was an explosion of flavor. It was chocolatey and bitter, fragrant from a symphony of different spices. There was a little bit of heat, and then it teetered on the edge of sweetness, before pulling back at the last minute. It was the most incredible sensation of flavors. I never knew food could be so balanced and deeply layered. So complex. So <em>profound</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">When I looked at her, she smiled softly and nodded. I couldn’t find the right words—not in English or Spanish—but I tried to communicate. <em>I get it now</em>, I nodded in return. <em>This is it</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">This is Mexico. It is ingenuity and a certain kind of perfection born from resourcefulness, care, and keen awareness. It is a masterful layering—of thousands of years of influences, of ingredients both indigenous and introduced from other cultures—all folded into each bite. Flavor that isn’t just about raw materials, but about feeling. It caused a paradigm shift inside me, and cameras be damned, it brought tears to my eyes.</p>
<p class="star">* * *</p>
<p class="noindent">That trip marked a lot of firsts for me. It was also the first time I filmed on location. Chef Alex García and I had cohosted a series called <em>Melting Pot</em> back in Food Network’s early days; he was Cuban and I was Mexican, so we had this great thing going with Latin recipes. We had an easy rapport after working together over the years in restaurants, so when we were approached to tag-team a cultural deep dive into Mexico, it seemed like the perfect scenario. The purpose was to highlight the flavors of regional Mexican cooking, so each of us would tackle three separate regions. For the show, designers created fun little animated icons of us traversing our respective territories, and eventually we’d meet up in the middle.</p>
<p class="indent">My itinerary started with Mexico City. I’d been to Mexico plenty of times, first as a kid with my dad, and then as a punk teenager who liked to sneak <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xiv" title="xiv"></span>across the border with my older cousin to find—and cause—a little trouble. But this was new territory. Not only in terms of place (most of my time had been spent in Juárez, a twenty-minute skip from my Texas hometown of El Paso), but personally. I was older. I was more thoughtful. And most importantly, I was on the clock. Food Network was still pretty new, and no one could have dreamed what the power of food TV would become back in those days. I had no idea how important television was going to be for my career, but I still didn’t want to fuck it up.</p>
<p class="indent">I can’t imagine a more chaotic setting for my first on-location shoot than the crush of the city’s center. I’d been on TV for a few years, but this was a totally different animal than the so-called stand-and-stir kind of shoot I was used to. When I got the call, my first instinct was to say, absolutely—<em>yes</em>. My second was to freak out a little. I was extremely nervous; I had no idea what it was going to be like to be out in the wild. There were so many questions. Will I be reading lines? Is there going to be a script? Am I going to be acting? Who will I be shooting with? And, of course, am I going to be any fucking good at this?</p>
<p class="indent">One of the first scenes we wanted to get in the can was to show the street life of one of the most densely populated cities in the world. The idea was to get a long shot of me walking through the city from a distance, so the camera could capture the scope of the crowd. It was an autumn morning, still crisp and temperate, but performance anxiety made me feel like a piece of <em>pollo</em> left under a heat lamp. I was mic’d up and sweating my face off. My job was to explain what was happening around me, and also to give some context to viewers about the city with facts and figures and statistics. I was trying to connect with a camera about five hundred yards away, but even without distraction it would have been a challenge to navigate the abundance of shopping and bartering and bustling around me. And I had to do it all while on the move, out of the controlled safety of the studio I was so accustomed to. I’d stayed up late the night before, memorizing my lines, but in the moment I worried I might have sudden amnesia.</p>
<p class="indent">We started rolling, and I launched into it, with as much joviality as I could muster.</p>
<p class="indent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xv" title="xv"></span><em>“Hi, I’m Aarón Sánchez, and we’re coming to you from Mexico City! The capital is home to . . .”</em></p>
<p class="indent">People around me stopped to stare at this <em>loco</em> dude speaking accented English into the ether, as if to no one. It took everything in me not to address their stares, or to at least give a smile and let them know I wasn’t a total whack job. I’d shot hundreds of hours in my career before that moment, but nothing prepared me for how difficult it was.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Holy shit</em>, I thought when we finally cut. <em>This is what it takes</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">But somehow, I pulled it off. I was thrilled when we wrapped that morning and high on adrenaline, but relief was fleeting. We were just getting started. The itinerary was grueling: we’d spend three or four days in each region, plus a day of travel on both ends. Call times were early and we shot late into the nights. Every morning, I was made up and the producers would roll me through the agenda. We’re going to hit this market. We’re going to eat at that restaurant. You’re going to talk about this dish. Some shots of you walking on the street. Some shots of you coming out of your hotel. It was meticulously planned and scouted for the most authentic experiences, but frankly they could have taken me to a bull castration and I would have been up for it.</p>
<p class="indent">Beyond trying to keep up with the task at hand, I had a lot on my mind. My own restaurant back in New York, Paladar, was still very new, and I’d recently signed my first cookbook contract. Outwardly, I was a celebrated chef, a competent business owner and TV personality, and with Food Network beginning to expand its reach, my star was definitely on the rise whether or not I knew or was ready for it.</p>
<p class="indent">But on the inside, I was starting to realize maybe I didn’t have it all quite so locked up. If that first day of filming was an indication, I had a long way to go before I could call myself a television expert.</p>
<p class="indent">For better or worse, I didn’t have a whole lot of time to worry. When I wasn’t terrified about nailing my on-screen performance or trying to stay in touch with my staff back home, I was totally lost in the excitement of it all. I was learning <em>so</em> much. Not only about making television, but about my culture and myself—something that has become a major theme in my life over the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvi" title="xvi"></span>nearly two decades since. TV has been a source of income, of promotion, of branding—a big part of my career, no question. But it has also been an indispensable vehicle for me to learn about the world. In being a conduit to teach viewers, I’ve had so many of my own mind-expanding experiences. That trip was just the beginning.</p>
<p class="indent">We traveled all around Mexico during those weeks, and I soaked it all up. I learned about the food, of course, but also the customs, the people, and the country itself as a deeply textured mosaic of historical influences. I could see the Spanish architecture and the colors of the royal guard—the red and blue everywhere—and I started to understand the Spanish conquest and its impact on the way people prepare their meals today.</p>
<p class="indent">Above all, I started to grasp the amazing diversity of Mexican cuisine, and how and why it varied from region to region. I met tons of home cooks, and for the first time, I encountered true experts on food. Before then, a culinary school degree, or a seasoned chef who could execute every technique in the book, was my bar for epicurean authority. But this was a whole new level—people who dedicated themselves to understanding the intricacies and intersection of history, culture, and eating. I decided then that this was what I wanted to do. To become extremely good at my craft, but to also understand food in a deeper way, to know where it comes from and what it means in a broader context. The traditions and customs. The mindset and purpose behind a plate of food.</p>
<p class="indent">Día de los Muertos was a major lesson in that relationship between food and cultural philosophy. Growing up, I was aware of the celebration, and we observed it at home and in my mom’s restaurant—it was a good reason for her to change things up, bring in some cool dishes and traditions. But to experience it in Mexico is something else entirely, and I understood the idea in a much more profound way. I finally grasped why in Mexican culture, death is not a somber topic. As far back as the Aztec civilization, there was an acceptance of dying as a natural part of the life cycle. You wake up, you make your way through your day, you go to sleep. You are born, you make your way through life, you are laid to rest. It’s important not to linger in grief. Some people actually fear their dearly departed would take offense to such <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvii" title="xvii"></span>mourning. Others are more concerned that sadness could cause more logistical problems—a river of tears would make a perilous and slippery journey for spirits crossing into unfamiliar territory. (Mexican people are nothing if not pragmatists, even in their mythologies.) But they also believe that death isn’t the last time they’ll get to interact with their lost loved ones, as long as they remain in their memories. So, each fall, a special three-day ceremony is held to invite them back to the living world and keep that memory alive. This is Día de los Muertos. And since no Mexican is ever okay with missing out on a <em>fiesta</em>, rousing the dead from eternal slumber to come party with their people seems perfectly natural.</p>
<p class="indent">In homes, altars called <em>ofrendas</em> are built to honor the dead. At my restaurant in New Orleans, Johnny Sánchez, we construct a brilliant <em>ofrenda</em> every year, in an effort to share a little bit of Mexican culture with our guests along with the food. Traditionally, it’s decorated with photos and personal effects, candles, statues, and incense. Corn kernels and gold marigold petals are sprinkled along a path to a family’s front door, a breadcrumb trail for souls to follow from <em>mictlan</em> back home, where families leave their doors open for easy entry. The first day is for the <em>angelitos</em>, or the spirits of children. The second is dedicated to deceased adults. People host huge gatherings and play games. There are parades and processions, prayers and offerings. Loved ones sit around and tell stories and anecdotes about the people who have left their worldly posts. It’s about sharing a drink and a laugh, and remembering loved ones as they were in life.</p>
<p class="indent">And just as in celebrations among the living, above all, there’s food. In Mexico, cooking for someone is the ultimate gesture of love, so what better way to draw your brother back from the dead than with his favorite earthly delights? Each home is a little different, because offerings are tailor-made for the spirit they’re trying to attract. But <em>tamales</em> and <em>tortillas</em> and pillowy, eggy <em>pan de muerto</em> are traditional, and there are always tons of confections. Sweet fruits and cookies and candied pumpkin, cups of <em>atole</em>—a drink that’s a little like hot chocolate, but spiced and thickened with <em>masa</em>—and of course, those iconic sugar skulls now so popular even in American culture. To see families gathered around plates of <em>mole poblano</em>, on porches decorated with <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xviii" title="xviii"></span>multicolored <em>papel picados</em> (confetti), to hear the sounds of their music and laughter in this celebration of death, is the strongest proof that Mexican culture is so vibrantly full of <em>life</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">When I was thirteen years old, living in New York City with my mom and my brother, my dad died back in our hometown of El Paso, Texas. Somehow this made Día de los Muertos even more mysterious to me. Losing him was such a crushing blow, so exquisitely painful every day, that I couldn’t possibly understand how anyone would want to celebrate such loss. I grew almost resentful of the practice, as if that would be no way to honor the man I so desperately missed and wished were still on earth with me, not on some <em>ofrenda</em> or in a grave surrounded by dancing and dining on tacos and corn.</p>
<p class="indent">But that day in the Oaxacan cemetery, watching everyone around me remember the people they’d lost, I realized it wasn’t at all a disrespect of the dead. On the contrary, these parties were thrown out of respect for the lost souls’ memories by celebrating their lives. I considered the funeral traditions of the United States, in which tears and sober silences, and the utmost levels of decorum, are imposed on people at their most vulnerable. In contrast it seemed totally inadequate.</p>
<p class="indent">For more than a decade, I was angry every day: that my dad had been taken from me, that he wasn’t going to walk through the door, that he was lost and gone forever. But this put my dad’s death in perspective in a totally new way. He wasn’t gone. He was there with us, in that cemetery. And he was conjured every time I recalled riding around in his car, or got a whiff of his cologne, or imagined serving him a dish I thought he’d have enjoyed. If I looked at his death the way my bereaved Mexican brethren viewed the passing of their loved ones, he was always going to be accessible to me, as long as I kept on calling him to mind. For the first time, I got it. In that cemetery, while we roused the long-since laid to rest with a raucous party, I finally felt a little peace.</p>
<p class="indent">The experience also instilled in me a new appreciation for my Mexican heritage. I felt so proud to know that I was a part of this culture, these people who had found a way to keep their spirits up while also keeping the memories of their loved ones alive. It felt like such a healthy, novel way to approach death, which had been such a torturous, taboo subject for so much of my <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xix" title="xix"></span>life. Of course, everyone must find their own way to grapple with grief. But Día de los Muertos resonated with me so much more than the American way of grieving, and it was perhaps one of the first things that made me feel truly Mexican in my heart.</p>
<p class="indent">That trip—the food I tasted, the places I saw, the ceremony of Día de los Muertos—taught me a lot about myself, and about ancestors who have endured so much but refuse to be victims of suffering. They cling to family and community. They search for joy even in the face of grief; they bring unimaginable color to the most grim circumstances, create culinary masterpieces from the humblest of ingredients. History has taught them that they have no way of knowing what tomorrow will bring, so for a people who have seen such pain, a celebration isn’t just a chance to party. A meal isn’t just sustenance. The pursuit of happiness isn’t recreational; it’s a survival strategy.</p>
<p class="star">* * *</p>
<p class="noindent">Being on location gave us a chance to capture Mexican life in a way we could never have conveyed in a studio, cooking mole or making <em>pan dulce</em>. I realized then that there was something incredible about making television in this way. My shows had always been planned down to the last detail; I knew what I was going to make and had a general idea of how I’d explain it to home cooks. But this was totally authentic. I was on camera, having real experiences and learning about customs in real time. I felt like my limited experience with Día de los Muertos didn’t give me anywhere near the base of knowledge I’d have needed to competently host a show on it. Here I was, learning right along with the audience—every reaction genuine, because it was happening in that moment.</p>
<p class="indent">It was that trip, and that moment in the cemetery, that set off my formal education in Mexican cuisine. I decided then that if I was diligent and curious and respectful, maybe I could do justice to the food I loved so much. Prior to <em>Taste of Mexico</em>, my food was never what you would consider Mexican. I cooked with pan-Latino flavors and preparations, but I never had the confidence to tackle Mexican food. But I realized then that cooking isn’t just <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xx" title="xx"></span>about technique and ingredients—it’s about an understanding of people, heritage, culture, and connections. That was the added dimension that turned something you could say tasted good into an experience that could speak to the soul. It was a moment when I realized that the individual is stronger as a part of the whole. A spice to a sauce. A person to a people. Maybe everyone has a moment like that. I happened to have mine on television.</p>
<p class="indent">Chile. Chocolate. Cinnamon. <em>Earth</em>—and a connection to it. To the ingredients. To people and culture.</p>
<p class="indent">My entire life has been about searching for connection—through food, TV, and conversations. But being immersed in Mexican culture for that month put me in touch with a part of myself I didn’t know existed. It taught me about something deep and inexplicable and ancient and soulful. Something that connected me not only to family, but to a cultural identity. And it taught me that more than anything, I had a whole lot more to learn. Now I understood why my mom wanted to share this food with the world when she opened her restaurant. Why it was so important to her. Why it would become so important to me. I knew the food that I cooked would never be the same. I would never be the same.</p>
<p class="indent">When we’re young, we take on this obsessive search for individuality, and being categorized feels like a threat to our very soul. It’s all about standing alone and standing out, blazing our own trail. Being our own person. But then suddenly, in the right moment, the idea that we might be a part of something so much bigger than ourselves becomes inspiring. Humbling. Comforting. It becomes an asset, not a creative liability. It’s a moment that will strip you of ego and replace youthful hubris with worldly awe.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s no surprise that many people arrive at a moment like this a little later in life, when the arrogance of youth disrupting that instinctual beacon has quieted down a bit. But it requires more than just the suspension of ego; it usually means a change of mindset, setting, or circumstance. It means laying yourself at the mercy of something unfamiliar, and accepting that some exchanges take place on another plane, without words or typical transaction. It can be ethereal. Supernatural. For me, it came almost from beyond the grave.</p>
<p class="indent">Twenty years later, I can still taste that Zapotec woman’s mole. The sweetness of her still-warm tortilla, the depth of the dark fruit and chocolate, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xxi" title="xxi"></span>the warmth of her spices. I wonder about her now—if she’s still with us, or if she’s a photo on someone’s <em>ofrenda</em>, called back to the celebration every autumn by her own family. Her legacy may have been a humble one. No food magazines would have commemorated her passing. But in that simple act, she found a permanent foothold in my consciousness. Every batch of mole I have made since then has a little bit of her memory layered in, like so many spices I remember from her sauce. Her presence lives through food for new generations, whether or not the people who come to my restaurant ever visit Oaxaca, whether or not they appreciate the depth of Mexican culture and how it has enriched their own lives. That is the subversiveness, the power, and the beauty of food.</p>
<p class="indent">The trip also yielded some more practical results, in establishing me as a chef who could pull off travel television. That changed the course of my career, which would go on to be largely travel-based shows. And it proved to me that there was more to TV than mindless entertainment. After years of telling people how to cook, I realized I could also use the medium as a way to share culture, to teach and reach people. It made me understand that my responsibility as a Latino with a platform was about a lot more than just sharing recipes for <em>chile rellenos</em>.</p>
<p class="indent">Before we left Oaxaca, we had to shoot a final scene that would give context to the event. My part of the storyline started with a morning in Mexico City, a place where you could go to see every kind of Mexican food, people from all walks of life in a bustling metropolis. It culminated under the Oaxacan moonlight, in a spiritual element.</p>
<p class="indent">I knelt before a grave, illuminated by candles and covered with golden marigold petals. I thought of my father. I put my palms in the soil. Then I looked to the camera and explained. “In Mexico,” I said, “death is not somber; it’s a celebration when people pass. This is a transfer of energy, this is just the next step.” I’d later watch the scene, myself on one knee on the earth, with candles lighting up the night. It was both poignant and personal, and it could not have been more real. “This is not the end,” I told viewers. “This is only the beginning.”<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xxii" title="xxii"></span></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-18 13:07:53 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-18 13:07:54 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-07-18 13:07:56 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-07-18 13:07:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:08:00 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:08:02 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:08:03 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:08:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:08:07 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:08:08 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 13:08:29 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 13:08:30 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@7c93d960
