2023-07-18 12:41:04 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-07-18 12:41:04 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-07-18 12:41:32 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-07-18 12:41:32 INFO  - Session id - 69f827a3bc1d5e627d7ec39e1a7950da670feb3a
2023-07-18 12:41:32 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-07-18 12:41:33 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:35 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-07-18 12:41:36 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-07-18 12:41:36 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:36 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-07-18 12:41:38 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-07-18 12:41:38 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 12:41:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-07-18 12:41:43 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:44 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-07-18 12:41:44 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:45 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:47 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:48 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-07-18 12:41:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:49 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:50 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:51 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:41:52 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-07-18 12:41:52 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - bookName: Embracing the Anthropocene: Managing Human Impact Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - bookName: Blessed Monsters Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - bookName: Children of Virtue and Vengeance Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - bookName: Animal Instinct Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 5
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 12:41:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-07-18 12:41:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-07-18 12:41:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-07-18 12:42:02 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:42:08 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:42:08 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-07-18 12:42:30 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:42:31 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-07-18 12:42:31 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:42:53 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-07-18 12:43:13 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:43:16 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-07-18 12:43:16 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-07-18 12:43:16 INFO  - randomBookName: Champagne Thursday
2023-07-18 12:43:16 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-18 12:43:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Champagne Thursday'
2023-07-18 12:43:20 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-07-18 12:43:23 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-18 12:43:24 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:43:24 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:43:33 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-07-18 12:43:33 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:43:34 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:43:35 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-07-18 12:43:35 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:43:37 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-07-18 12:43:37 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-07-18 12:44:04 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-07-18 12:44:04 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-07-18 12:44:04 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-07-18 12:44:05 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-18 12:44:06 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1080px / 2.8125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="Generator" content="Atlantis Word Processor 3.2.13.7" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
<title></title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p0"><span class="t2">Champagne Thursday</span></p>
<p class="p0">By Kris T. Bethke</p>
<p class="p2">“What are you doing here?”</p>
<p class="p2">Seeing Quinn at my door wasn’t a surprise. In fact, when I heard the knock, I knew it had to be him. No one else would show up unannounced, and especially not so late. He didn’t answer my question with words, only a huge grin that made his face light up. I was a sucker for that grin. Had been since I met him. I could get lost in it.</p>
<p class="p2">Which was the only explanation as to why I didn’t realize right away what he was holding up.</p>
<p class="p2">“It’s Champagne Thursday!” He crowed, waving the bottles at me. He had one in each hand. Identical bottles of golden, bubbly liquid. It looked like Cristal, but I knew he didn’t have that kind of money. Not for two bottles anyway. I had to assume it was a knockoff, but knowing Quinn, it would taste good. “Are you going to let me in?”</p>
<p class="p2">I stepped back because of course he could come in. He was always welcome in my home, no matter what day or time he chose to show up. Or what he was carrying.</p>
<p class="p2">“What exactly is that?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Champagne.” His tone said that should have been obvious. But we both knew that wasn’t what I was talking about. Quinn set the bottles on my coffee table, then wiped his hands on his jeans. The slight condensation let me know that the bottles were chilled already. He cocked his head to the side, studying them. “Or really, sparkling wine. If you want to get technical.”</p>
<p class="p2">I didn’t. I locked the door and followed him inside, but he’d already headed for the glass cabinet and rummaged in the back until he came up with two dusty flutes. I never used them. I didn’t even remember I had them. As Quinn went to the sink to give them a quick wash, I stayed put and stared daggers at his back.</p>
<p class="p2">He finished his task, turned, caught sight of my face, and sighed. “What?”</p>
<p class="p2">“What?” The incredulity in my tone made him laugh. “Quinn! What the hell is ‘Champagne Thursday’?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Angel!” He said my name in the same admonishing tone I’d used. “It’s Thursday and we drink champagne. It’s a thing.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Since when?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Since now.”</p>
<p class="p2">I squinted at him. “Why?”</p>
<p class="p2">That bright smile played over his lips again. “Do we need a reason?”</p>
<p class="p2">I gave that some thought. And then, because of the way he was looking at me, I sighed and gave in. “No. I don’t suppose we do.”</p>
<p class="p2">Quinn laughed and my whole world righted. That quick, and I was feeling like myself again. He’d always made it easy on me. Ever since the moment we’d become friends, I’d felt at ease in his presence. He had that effect on a lot of people. I did my best not to be jealous when I saw others react to him. I selfishly wanted to keep that infectious joy and big heart all to myself. But I knew that wasn’t fair.</p>
<p class="p2">“Come on, Angel baby. Let’s drink.”</p>
<p class="p2">I didn’t bother telling him not to call me that. I’d tried, in the beginning. But he liked it, it made him smile, and I couldn’t make him stop. Truth be told, I didn’t want him to. It was his special name, just for me, and it made me feel cared for.</p>
<p class="p2">Quinn poured out the drinks and gulped down one glass before I’d even taken more than a sip. He poured himself another, and then settled back into his favorite spot on my couch. I sat in the armchair next to him, close enough to touch if I leaned over. But I didn’t.</p>
<p class="p2">After a sigh and a sip, Quinn reached for the remotes on the end table, pushed aside the ones he didn’t want, and thumbed on the sound system. It took him a few moments fiddling with the controls before he settled on a mellow playlist and turned the sound low. Then he kicked off his shoes, nudged them under the edge of the table, and really got comfortable.</p>
<p class="p2">“You okay, dude?” There was something about his eyes that belied the truth. Normally, the warmth and sparkle—which was impressive for how dark brown his eyes were—kept me transfixed. That combined with the thick, sooty lashes made his eyes one of his best features. But tonight I could see an edge there I usually didn’t. A pain.</p>
<p class="p2">“Why wouldn’t I be?” Another long drink and a cheeky grin. But his eyes were still hurting.</p>
<p class="p2">I set my glass on the table and leaned forward. “Talk to me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I love this song!” He hopped up and sauntered to the middle of the room, swaying with the slow melody. He held out a hand. “Come dance.”</p>
<p class="p2">I was on my feet before I made the conscious decision to do so. Whatever Quinn wanted. Always.</p>
<p class="p2">He grabbed my fingers and pulled me in, but I was the one who gathered him up and took control of our swaying. It wasn’t dancing, exactly, but we were moving to the music. The singer was crooning about love lost or something, but I wasn’t listening. I just held Quinn tightly and let him rest his weight against me.</p>
<p class="p2">“Bad day?” I asked softly, bending down so my lips brushed his ear. He gave a tiny shiver but otherwise didn’t react.</p>
<p class="p2">“It was a very bad, no good day.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Tell me,” I whispered.</p>
<p class="p2">“We lost two patients.”</p>
<p class="p2">That was all he said, and I knew I wouldn’t get more. As an ER nurse, Quinn took his job very seriously. He was passionate about patient care of course, but he was also bound and determined to uphold HIPAA. I’d never hear another word about it.</p>
<p class="p2">But I didn’t need to. Whatever had happened had hit him hard, and that was all I needed to know. He needed Champagne Thursday and his best friend holding him. I was more than happy to oblige.</p>
<p class="p2">Even if I wanted to be more than just his best friend.</p>
<p class="p2">Quinn and I had been us for years. An instant connection from the night we met. We just worked. And if over the years, I started to think of him as more than just a friend? That was on me. Quinn had a type and I wasn’t it. That was okay. Or at least, that’s what I told myself. Truthfully, I’d take him any way I could get him. Even if that meant we stayed firmly in the friend box. I couldn’t lose him.</p>
<p class="p2">“Remember when I first saw you?” I kept my voice quiet, and even as the song ended and a peppier one came on, I kept up the slow swaying. I didn’t want to break the mood. “Mascara streaked down your cheeks, soaking wet, shirt plastered against you? You looked like a drowned rat.”</p>
<p class="p2">I expected him to laugh, but the weak chuckle was less than satisfying. “I looked smokin’ hot before the rain got me.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I have no doubt.”</p>
<p class="p2">Quinn pushed his forehead tighter against the side of my neck. We swayed some more, and I was content in the quiet. Just holding him. Shuffling my feet. I was so lost in the sensation, that when he spoke, it startled me.</p>
<p class="p2">“I saw you first, you know.”</p>
<p class="p2">“What?” I tried to pull back to look at him, but he held on tighter still.</p>
<p class="p2">“Weeks and weeks before that night. I kept coming to the club, hoping I’d get the hot bouncer that stood by the dance floor to notice me.”</p>
<p class="p2">The confession floored me. I had no idea. I mean, I knew I’d seen him around before that night we actually met. Quinn was impossible to miss. Lithe, beautiful, graceful. Stunning. But I hadn’t realized it’d been that often. At the time, I’d been too focused on my job. I was there to keep trouble to a minimum. And when there was a club packed with sweaty, half naked, gay and bi men, there was always the potential for trouble.</p>
<p class="p2">“I…” I swallowed hard, unnamed emotion clogging my throat. “I didn’t realize that.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I know.” Quinn smiled up at me, and I could see the warmth in those gorgeous brown eyes again. “You didn’t see me. Not really. But I wanted you to.”</p>
<p class="p2">My voice was nothing more than a hoarse croak. “Why didn’t you ever say anything?”</p>
<p class="p2">He shrugged and pulled away. I reached out for him, but he’d already turned and picked up his glass. I watched him take a long swallow, watched as his throat worked and he licked his top lip.</p>
<p class="p2">I narrowed my gaze. “And why say something now? Champagne go to your head?”</p>
<p class="p2">He whipped around fast, and for just a second, I thought he was going to throw his glass at me. For that moment in time, his expression was filled with anger. But then his fingers tightened, his knuckles turning white, and he took a deep, measured breath, his features smoothing out.</p>
<p class="p2">“I’m tired, Angel. I’m tired of waiting for you to figure out that we’re perfect for each other. That all this time, we’ve been dancing toward each other. I’ve been waiting for you to be ready, but I don’t think you ever will be.”</p>
<p class="p2">“<span class="t7">You’ve</span> been waiting?” My voice came out harsher than I intended, but I didn’t care. “You think you’ve been the one that’s been waiting for me to be ready? You’ve got that backward! I’ve been the one, sitting at home, picking up the pieces when some new prick broke your heart, waiting for you to finish sowing your wild oats!”</p>
<p class="p2">He sputtered, then clamped his mouth shut. After a long, tense moment, he asked, “Did you just say ‘sowing wild oats’?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Shut up,” I groused, but it broke the tension between us. I smiled. “Quinn, I didn’t think you wanted me. Not like that. So I was trying to be the best friend I could be to you, because that was the only way I could have you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Well.” He huffed and sipped some more champagne. But his eyes were filled with merriment. “That was stupid. You were stupid. Romantic, but stupid.”</p>
<p class="p2">“Quinn—”</p>
<p class="p2">He laughed, a truly joyous sound, cutting me off. He set his glass down and swaggered over to me, a swish in his hips he didn’t usually pull out around me. When he got close enough, he threw his arms over my shoulders and shoved his fingers in my hair.</p>
<p class="p2">“This isn’t the champagne talking, right?”</p>
<p class="p2">I scowled, but pulled him close enough that our hips crashed together. “I’ve had, like, one sip. What about you?”</p>
<p class="p2">“Nope.” He leaned even closer, so our lips were a hairsbreadth apart. “You know I can hold my liquor better than that.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I do.” I grabbed his hips so he couldn’t get away. “I want to kiss you.”</p>
<p class="p2">“I’ve been waiting forever for—mmmpfh.”</p>
<p class="p2">I crushed my mouth to his, dominating from the get go. He wasn’t the only one who had been waiting. I had to taste him. Every inch of him. But I would start with his mouth. The soft lips and his agile tongue. I devoured him, inhaled him. Marked him and claimed him with a kiss that turned into more and more the longer we stood there. I couldn’t get enough of him.</p>
<p class="p2">He tasted like sweetness and joy. Everything I imagined he would taste like. Some of that had to be the champagne, but mostly it was him. Just Quinn. Finally in my arms, kissing me back as hard and as passionately as I was kissing him.</p>
<p class="p2">Eventually we had to breathe so I pulled back just far enough to do so. His body was tight with anticipation, his hard cock pressed up against mine and begging for attention. I wanted nothing more than to give it to him. We stood there, pressed together, panting into each other’s mouth.</p>
<p class="p2">“I want to take you to bed, and never let you leave,” I growled.</p>
<p class="p2">He laughed, sounding a little breathy. But his grin was the most beautiful thing in the world.</p>
<p class="p2">“We’ll get there. But in the meantime, more of this.” He kissed me once, long and hard, and I was just really getting into it when he pulled away, dancing out of my reach when I tried to make a grab for him. “First more kissing and more champagne.”</p>
<p class="p2">I tackled him onto the couch before he could get his hand on the bottle. With quick motions, I pinned his hands above his head. He groaned and wiggled, pressing up so I could feel every hard inch of him. I kissed him again, this time more gently. Drugging him with my passion, wanting him to be as giddy and relieved and turned on as I was. When I finally pulled back, his lips were wet and swollen by our kissing. His eyes were glazed, pupils dilated, and he let out a little moan as he wiggled against me again.</p>
<p class="p2">“You’re so beautiful.” I let go of his hands so I could get my fingers in his thick hair, tilting his head back so I could kiss and bite at his throat. He shivered and let out a tiny whine. I’d never been so turned on in my life and I needed more of him. But he grabbed my head as I bent again to kiss his neck.</p>
<p class="p2">“I love Champagne Thursday,” he murmured, then he grazed my chin with his lips. Then the corner of my mouth. “I think it should be a weekly thing.”</p>
<p class="p2">I couldn’t agree more.</p>
<p class="p2"> </p>
<p class="p4">THE END</p>
<p class="p4"> </p>
</body>
</html>
2023-07-18 12:44:06 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-07-18 12:44:06 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-07-18 12:44:08 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-07-18 12:44:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:44:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:44:13 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:44:15 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:44:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:44:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:44:18 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-07-18 12:44:38 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-07-18 12:44:39 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@7c93d960
