2023-03-03 02:45:11 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-03-03 02:45:11 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-03 02:45:39 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-03 02:45:40 INFO  - Session id - 3755214fb247284f97122309594fb6af80dde17f
2023-03-03 02:45:40 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-03 02:45:40 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:42 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:42 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-03 02:45:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-03 02:45:47 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:47 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-03 02:45:47 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:48 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:49 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:51 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-03 02:45:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:52 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:52 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:53 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:45:55 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000303
2023-03-03 02:45:55 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-03 02:45:56 INFO  - bookName: The Debt Trap Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-03 02:45:56 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-03-03 02:45:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-03 02:45:56 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000303'
2023-03-03 02:45:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-03 02:45:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-03 02:45:58 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:46:05 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:46:05 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-03 02:46:26 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:46:26 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-03 02:46:26 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:46:48 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-03 02:47:09 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:10 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-03 02:47:10 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-03 02:47:10 INFO  - randomBookName: The Star of Fate
2023-03-03 02:47:10 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-03 02:47:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Star of Fate'
2023-03-03 02:47:13 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-03 02:47:16 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-03 02:47:17 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:47:17 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:24 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-03 02:47:24 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:47:25 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:25 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-03 02:47:26 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:26 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-03 02:47:26 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-03 02:47:43 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-03 02:47:44 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:44 INFO  - Step 12 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-03-03 02:47:44 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:47:45 INFO  - Step 13 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-03 02:47:46 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-03 02:47:46 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-03 02:47:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-03 02:47:47 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Chapter 1</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:88d89d54-54c5-4aef-abb3-356581fedf12" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>

<div class="chapter-heading">
  
  
  <h1 class="chapter-title">Chapter 1</h1>
  
  
</div>

<div class="chapter-content">
<p class="no-indent">Four people huddled around the dimly lit table in the backroom of the Ace’s High. The sign on the door said “Private Function”. Muffled music drifted in from the main room, but the pub was already closed. The tables and chairs had been packed away.</p>
<p>Three of the four players alternated intense stares between the cards in their hands and each other. But Lando Bailey’s eyes were fixed on the small pile of chips on the table in front of him. He glanced up at the much larger stack in the pot and sighed.</p>
<p>No one spoke. Other than the soft music coming from the other room, the only sound was the clock against the wall, ticking rhythmically. The hour hand pointed between the twelve and the one. The minute hand stood at the seven.</p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p>“Full house,” Mark Golley said. His face remained neutral until the two players on either side of him—Sylvia, a pixie-faced redhead wearing too much green eye shadow, and Todd, a grumpy, hawk-nosed businessman—folded. A cold, slow smile spread from Mark’s thin lips to his plump cheeks. He leaned forward, his eyes blazing like a Disney villain’s, and pulled the sizeable pot with both meaty hands to join the rest of his chips.</p>
<p>“Dammit, Bailey, when are you going to play a hand?” Todd said, snapping his head around until his nose was inches from Lando’s.</p>
<p> Lando shrugged. “I’m waiting for my moment.”</p>
<p>Todd sneered at him before passing his cards to Mark, who shuffled with deft hands.</p>
<p>“Lando is big blind this hand,” Mark said with a chuckle. “He has to play.”</p>
<p>Lando glanced from Mark to Todd and back again. Todd’s irritation could work in Lando’s favour if he got the right cards. For the last hour and a half, Lando had picked up nothing but junk. His Texas hold ’em strategy was simple: if he didn’t have good cards, he folded early. Otherwise, his opponents could draw him into losing hands. Though it felt like the right play, he couldn’t ignore the effect on his stack of chips. He would bleed out at this rate. Lando ran his hand through uncombed brown hair.</p>
<p>He had enough chips for a final bluff, which would intimidate the other players, but it meant going all in regardless of what landed in front of him. Or he could just go home. Pay Dan back whatever he had left. The thought left a sick feeling in his stomach.</p>
<p>“It’s getting quite late,” Sylvia said, yawning. “Don’t you have a business to run, Orlando?”</p>
<p>The hair on the back of his neck stiffened. Don’t overreact. Breathe.</p>
<p>“Pretty young to be running a business,” Todd said. “How old are you? Twenty-five?”</p>
<p>“Twenty-three.”</p>
<p> “Didn’t you hear?” Mark said. “Bailey’s cycling business went under months ago.” He failed to hide the malicious glee in his voice.</p>
<p>Sylvia jerked her head back. “No! When did this happen?”</p>
<p>Before Lando could get a word in, Mark interrupted. “That partner of his—what was his name, Bailey?”</p>
<p>“Backstabbing piece of shit,” Lando replied.</p>
<p>“Yeah, that was it. ‘Backstabbing piece of shit’ ran off with a whole bunch of money, leaving our boy here to deal with a truckload of angry creditors. How’d that work out for you, Bailey?”</p>
<p>“I’m out of work and bankrupt. Thanks for asking.”</p>
<p>“Ouch,” Mark said, playfully.</p>
<p>“Your sympathy, Mark, as ever, is overwhelming.” Lando wished he had something long, hard, and wooden with which to wipe the smile off Mark’s face.</p>
<p>Sylvia frowned. “If you’re bankrupt, where did you get the money for tonight?”</p>
<p>Lando pulled at the collar of his blue shirt. Fortunately, Todd jumped in.</p>
<p>“Are we playing poker or not?”</p>
<p>“Yeah, we’re playing poker. Keep your pants on.” Mark’s chubby hands shuffled and dealt two cards onto the table in front of each player. He then placed three cards face down onto the green felt.</p>
<p>Lando wiped sweat from his forehead and glanced at his chips. Only four hundred bucks left. Should he go for it?</p>
<p>“Wait. Lando, this is idiotic,” Sylvia said. “Why are you doing this? If you don’t have the money, you should go home.”</p>
<p>If only it were that simple. He’d let so many people down. People he’d borrowed money from—family, friends, his girlfriend—all left with nothing.</p>
<p>Forces beyond his control had taken it away from him. It didn’t matter what he did to make it right. Things only got worse. Most of his friends and family wouldn’t talk to him anymore. He needed to do right by those who were left. No matter the cost.</p>
<p>Lando sipped from the cold water on the table beside him to ease his dry throat, and dropped two precious chips on the table. One fell off the other. Lando reached into the pot, rearranging them back into a small tower.</p>
<p>Sylvia lowered her head before tossing the small blind, one chip, onto the table.</p>
<p>Lando peeked at his cards. Ace of hearts and ace of spades. At last—a hand.</p>
<p>“All in!” Lando said, a hint of desperation finding its way into his voice. He pushed his remaining chips into the centre of the table.</p>
<p>A strong hand at the start of the game didn’t mean a winning hand at the end. He knew he needed to intimidate one or two of the other players out. The odds of beating one player were better than the odds of defeating two, or three.</p>
<p>Mark’s dark eyes met Lando’s ocean blues with an impressive bouncer-stare. Lando held eye contact, wishing time would speed up. <i>Are you sure you want to do that?</i> Mark’s eyes said. <i>Can you make good if this play goes south?</i></p>
<p>Lando sat back, wiping his sweaty palms on his jeans. Butterflies in his stomach flapped their wings, and a drought formed in his mouth.</p>
<p>Mark pushed his chips into the pot. One by one the other players raised him.</p>
<p>Dammit!</p>
<p>Nothing he could do but wait. The chips were arranged into a side pot, and the other three players continued the round of betting. Lando drank from his water, his eyes never leaving his opponents.</p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p><i>Tick.</i></p>
<p>The side pot continued to grow. No one seemed interested in folding.</p>
<p>Ignoring the three face down cards on the table, he had the best hand. No telling what cards might turn up. His position was strong. He could still win this. But if they were all still in, at least two of his opponents had something. Maybe one of them was bluffing, but surely he or she would have folded by now.</p>
<p>He needed to win. God, what if he didn’t? If only he had more chips, he could do some serious intimidating.</p>
<p>Mark turned the three cards in the middle over: five of clubs, king of diamonds, and king of clubs. Two pair—aces and kings. A stronger hand, but if one of the others had a king, then he or she had three of a kind and he was beaten.</p>
<p>A thin smile formed on Mark’s lips, and he not-so-subtly cracked several knuckles. Lando leaned back, unsure what to make of that.</p>
<p>Betting resumed, and Mark dropped a huge pile of chips into the pot. This proved to be too much for Todd, but Sylvia checked him.</p>
<p>Next card was the seven of hearts.</p>
<p>Mark came in strong again, but Sylvia would not be intimidated.</p>
<p>Damn, what did they have?</p>
<p>Mark dealt and turned over the final card, the river. Lando held his breath. Ace of clubs. He nearly punched the roof. Full house! He was back in the game. Or at the very least he could go home with something to show for it. He could give something back. Make it right.</p>
<p>Sylvia checked, and Mark went all in. She smiled and checked his bet.</p>
<p>“Let’s see them,” she said.</p>
<p>“Full house, aces over kings,” Lando said, turning his over.</p>
<p>Mark whistled. “That’s got me beat. But the real money depends on what you have, baby. I’ve got a club flush.”</p>
<p>Sylvia glanced at Lando sadly. His heart dropped.</p>
<p>“Sorry, handsome.” She turned her cards over, one at a time. King of hearts, king of spades—four of a kind.</p>
<p>A wave of nausea rose from his stomach. Game over.</p>
<p>“Kid?” Todd nudged him.</p>
<p>Lando stared at the table open-mouthed for a good moment. Then he stood on shaky legs.</p>
<p> “Gentlemen, sweet lady, I . . . Shit.”</p>
<p>“Thank you for the game.” Sylvia extended her hand. He took it and nodded at Mark and Todd.</p>
<p>Todd gave him a brief smile, but Mark said nothing. He had a strange expression on his face, a hard look—an I-warned-you stare.</p>
<p>“Roger will let you out,” he said, before returning to the cards.</p>
<p>Lando left and walked through the main bar, which stank of beer and liquor. The pub walls were decorated with posters of various AFL stars, past and present, wearing St Kilda jerseys.</p>
<p>The soles of his shoes squeaked on the sticky floor. A stooped cadaverous figure stood in the middle of the bar scowling at a wet mop. Each of his movements was slow and pained.</p>
<p>Lando couldn’t remember a time when Roger hadn’t been in the bar. The man never had a bad word to say about anyone, except for the Pies. If you were a Collingwood supporter, God help you.</p>
<p>Well over seventy, Roger should have retired long ago. But he’d grown tired of eating baked beans on toast and living off what little was left of his pension, so he’d resumed working.</p>
<p>“I need to get me drinks in before they put me away!” Roger told him one night. Which seemed fair enough at the time.</p>
<p>Roger placed the mop in a metal bucket, glared at the floor for a long time, exhaled a long-suffering sigh, and returned to work.</p>
<p>Lando watched him. Would this be him in fifty years?</p>
<p>Roger gave a start when Lando approached.</p>
<p>“No luck tonight?” Roger asked. Lando could hear something in his voice. Sympathy?</p>
<p>“Unfortunately not, mate,” Lando said. “Did you see who won the game?”</p>
<p>“Collingwood by three goals,” Roger said with a scowl and faint note of accusation, as if the result were somehow Lando’s fault. </p>
<p>Lando shook his fist. “We will have our revenge.”</p>
<p>“Maybe,” Roger said with a shrug, and turned back to the mop. Lando trudged to the door, but before he could open it, Roger turned. “Orlando, Drew wanted a chat about the money you owe him.”</p>
<p>Lando froze. He could feel his stomach turning to stone, and he licked dry lips.</p>
<p>“I thought the bank spoke to him already.”</p>
<p>“The fellah from the bank doesn’t owe Drew six thousand dollars. You do.”</p>
<p>Michael Drew had been one of the less-reputable creditors for CycleMe, Lando’s bike hire business. It had, of course, been Thomas’s idea to approach Mr Drew for a loan.</p>
<p>“The boss wants it by next week.” Of course he did.</p>
<p>“I’m good for it,” Lando lied.</p>
<p>Roger nodded and returned to his mop.</p>
<p>Lando pulled his jacket in tighter against the cold Melbourne night air and walked out onto Sydney Road. He looked at his watch. At 12:45 am, a few clubs and bars would be open, but the trams and trains had stopped running. And he had to work tomorrow.</p>
<p><i>Shit. Shit. Shit.</i></p>
<p>With his head bowed and his gaze fixed on the path in front of him, it took him an hour to ride home on his bike. He replayed the game in his head, trying to think of something he could have done differently. Nothing sprang to mind. His strategy should have worked. He’d bet big when he needed to, and held back when the cards were against him.</p>
<p>Maybe if he’d gone in with more than seven hundred dollars he could have turned it around. Then again, it was just as likely he’d have thrown good money after bad with no change to his luck.</p>
<p>Bad luck—it was like a dark cloud that followed him. He’d made mistakes. He was first to admit that. Trusting the wrong people had cost him his business, and after that went down, the rest of his life followed like a house of cards. His job, his relationships, his dreams: one by one they fell apart. All because of bad luck. Some debts didn’t let go so easily.</p>
<p>Instead of going to bed when he arrived home, as he knew he should, he picked up the phone.</p>
<p>“Hello?” Suzie’s sleepy voice answered.</p>
<p>“Hey, it’s me.”</p>
<p>“What’s wrong?”</p>
<p>“I just . . . I needed to hear your voice.”</p>
<p>“Lando, it’s after two.” She sounded irritated. “You can’t call me like this anymore. We talked about this.”</p>
<p>“I know. I just—”</p>
<p>“Whatever it is, it can wait until tomorrow. Don’t call me at this time again. I need to work and so do you.”</p>
<p>“I know. Sorry.”</p>
<p>“Okay.”</p>
<p>“I love you,” he said, but she’d already hung up.</p>

</div>

</body>
</html>
2023-03-03 02:47:47 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-03 02:47:47 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-03 02:48:12 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-03 02:48:12 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:12 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-03 02:48:13 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:13 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-03 02:48:14 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:15 INFO  - Step 18 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-03 02:48:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-03 02:48:18 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-03 02:48:18 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-03 02:48:19 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-03 02:48:20 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-03 02:48:22 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:24 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:25 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:26 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:48:27 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:48:28 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-03 02:48:28 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:48:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:48:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-03 02:48:32 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@7ba5d806
