2023-03-05 08:41:17 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-03-05 08:41:17 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-05 08:41:51 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-05 08:41:51 INFO  - Session id - ec43c0da9fdce0c47a4ed893b8a490a7c2db982f
2023-03-05 08:41:51 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-05 08:41:51 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:41:55 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:41:55 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:41:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-05 08:41:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-05 08:41:59 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:00 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-05 08:42:00 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:02 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:03 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:05 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-05 08:42:05 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:07 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:08 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:09 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000303
2023-03-05 08:42:09 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-05 08:42:10 INFO  - bookName: The Debt Trap Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-05 08:42:10 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 1
2023-03-05 08:42:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-05 08:42:10 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000303'
2023-03-05 08:42:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-05 08:42:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-05 08:42:14 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:42:20 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:42:20 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-05 08:42:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:42:42 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-05 08:42:42 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:43:03 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-05 08:43:23 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:43:24 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-05 08:43:24 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-03-05 08:43:24 INFO  - randomBookName: A Spark of Light
2023-03-05 08:43:25 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-05 08:43:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'A Spark of Light'
2023-03-05 08:43:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-05 08:43:30 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-05 08:43:32 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:43:32 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:43:40 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-05 08:43:41 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:43:41 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:43:42 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-05 08:43:43 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:43:44 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-05 08:43:44 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-05 08:44:06 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-05 08:44:07 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:07 INFO  - Step 12 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-03-05 08:44:07 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:08 INFO  - Step 13 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-05 08:44:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-05 08:44:09 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-05 08:44:10 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-05 08:44:10 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Chapter 2</title>
  <link href="css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="css/media.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:b7df362e-bbc7-4735-aff8-86e5cebdd362" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body class="content">
  <div class="element element-container-single element-bodymatter element-type-chapter element-with-heading" id="chapter-2">
    <div class="heading heading-with-title heading-without-image" id="chapter-2-heading">
      <div class="heading-contents">
        <div class="title-subtitle-block title-block-title-is-element-number">
          <div class="element-number-block">
          </div>
          <div class="title-block">
            <h1 class="title">Chapter Two</h1>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="text" id="chapter-2-text">
      <p class="first first-in-chapter first-full-width">“Abbott once tried to force his way into my head, but stopped before he hurt me. You came in the way he did, but you seemed to <i>enjoy</i> the pain of drilling through my shields — practically shattering my mind to get in and look around.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I hadn’t asked a question, and Gavin didn’t offer an answer.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Rinaldo and Griffin seemed to have more… <i>finesse</i>. Also, you drank from me later — why didn’t you drink from me up front, so you could take me over without hurting me?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He smirked. “You aren’t going to like the answer.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You wanted to hurt me? Like raping someone versus having sex?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He didn’t move a muscle, and yet his eyes clearly told me I’d hit the nail on the head.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Abbott wanted me to think powering in was his only option. A card in his pocket, in case he wishes to direct my thoughts later and doesn’t want me to know there are other ways in?” I shook my head. “He didn’t use it when I was breaking up with him, so that doesn’t feel right either.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“He didn’t share his reasons with me, so you’ll have to ask him about that. I came in the way I did because I wanted to show you I could. You hurt my Master and I wanted to hurt you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I can forgive you for that, but I can’t forgive you for jacking off to some of my memories, nor can I find it in me to ignore how badly you wanted to let <i>all</i> the life force flow out of me.” It was on the tip of my tongue to apologize for what I was about to do to him, but I pulled myself back.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He needed to see me as ruthless. <i>No apologies.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">“You don’t respect me. That needs to change. You raped my mind, and you…” I shook my head. “With your history, I’m aware you can’t <i>really</i> be raped anymore, so I won’t bother.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I walked around him, looked his <i>delicious</i> body over. He’d been restrained for hours, but vampires don’t get muscle cramps like humans. Still, I imagined he’d appreciate being let down — which wasn’t going to happen in the near future. Could I hurt someone and enjoy their pain? I was going to have to find a way to take pleasure in his screams, if I was going to pull this off.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I stopped in front of him and crossed my arms. “You thought you blocked the memory of how you felt while the blood drained out of me.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“If I didn’t want you to remember, I’d have written something over it.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I nodded. I’d figured as much, which meant it was possible he’d done worse to me and I’d never know.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I kept that thought in my mind for the next couple of hours.</p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>It gave me strength.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">“Here’s my promise to you. If you hurt me or mine again, I’ll torture you for <i>weeks</i>, possibly months, before I kill you true. I’m going to give you a little taste of what I’m capable of. I’ll earn your respect if it kills you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Abbott says you agreed not to kill me true.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I shrugged. “You should be able to heal from being cut by my weapons when they’re orange or blue. However, even Mordecai’s afraid of them when they’re solid red. I usually have control, but when I’m angry it slips, sometimes.” It hadn’t slipped in years, but I was certain I pulled off the statement without it sounding like a lie.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I stepped to the side and disrobed down to a black microfiber leotard. It wouldn’t absorb moisture, and I looked forward to seeing Gavin’s blood roll off it. Or, that’s what I told myself. I needed to get into hurting him, which meant I had to convince myself I was going to enjoy it.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I put my shoes and clothes near the door and gave Cora what was probably a grim look. This was going to get messy, but the drain in the floor would channel everything out of the room. Cora’s expression told me she was in it for the long haul, and I hoped she could see how much I appreciated her moral support.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Without my heels I had to look up to Gavin even more, but that was okay. I’d been seated for a good part of our interrogation. I was comfortable and he wasn’t. Height was only as important as I made it.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I held my right hand so Gavin could see it, and put blue claws of light on the tips of my fingers. A gentle caress of his chest, and four bloody trails followed my stroke. I went around his nipples the first couple of times, but eventually sliced through the center of them.</p>
      <p class="subsq">The vampire didn’t scream, but he couldn’t keep the agony he felt off his face. I imagined feeling joy at his pain and hoped he smelled my pleasure and not my conflict.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I hadn’t expected Gavin to get hard, but perhaps I should’ve. He’d been a sex slave at eight years old. He had good reason to be fucked in the head.</p>
      <p class="subsq">This wasn’t about sex, so I ignored the evidence of his arousal and got down to business.</p>
      <p class="subsq">His eyes were hard and he hadn’t uttered a sound yet, but his muscles and hard member jerked when I let the claws absorb back into me and formed a wicked looking curved knife.</p>
      <p class="subsq">And I have to admit — I found joy in his fear.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I was better than that, though. It was true he’d terrified me, and true he deserved this, but I wasn’t one of the monsters and had no intentions of becoming one. I’d do whatever I had to do to keep me and my loved ones safe, but I wasn’t comfortable with the glee I’d felt when I realized he was afraid.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I didn’t back off, but I focused on my task at hand instead of his reactions. I had to do this, but enjoying another’s fear and pain wasn’t right, no matter what they’d done to me.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I sliced a straight line from armpit to armpit, just under his collarbones, an inch deep.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d brought a scalpel with me, and I used it to cut two vertical lines down from the edges of the initial cut. I pushed hard, so it cut through to the ribs, and then sliced down, so the scalpel rode the top of a rib, pushed in deeper between, and then rode the top of the next rib. I continued until I reached the bottom rib on both sides.</p>
      <p class="subsq">The scalpel went into the sink, and I returned to make another knife out of light. This time, I made a fourth cut, horizontal, to connect the lines below his sternum. It wasn’t a perfect square, but it didn’t have to be.</p>
      <p class="subsq">It took a full ten or fifteen minutes to get all the skin and most of the muscle off his chest, so only his rib cage showed. The first time I dropped a huge piece of skin and muscle to the floor, I flinched at the wet, squicky slap of flesh on concrete. Gavin’s eyes had been squeezed closed, so he didn’t see.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He wasn’t totally silent — there were gasps and the occasional raspy growl, but he never moaned, whined, or screamed.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Part of me is ashamed to admit I wanted to make him scream and beg. However, I didn’t hurt him worse than I had to. I worked methodically, intent on doing what I’d planned — peeling the muscles from the top of his ribcage, my laser knife severing tendons and ligaments where necessary.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d been dragged into the supernatural world and hadn’t wanted to turn ruthless, but if this was what it took to gain respect, so be it. He’d hurt me, and next time he might kill me instead of merely hurting, but I meant every word when I’d told him he was going to respect me if it killed him.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Still, when he screamed in agony near the end, I finally felt vindicated. He’d made me scream, and now I’d made him scream.</p>
      <p class="subsq">When I finally stopped to look at my work, he was literally bare from his collarbones to the top of his abdomen, and from armpit to armpit. His rib cage showed, and there were places I could see between, to get a glimpse at the organs and vessels behind the protective barrier of bones. His lower body was soaked in blood even though he was no longer circulating it through his system. He’d keep what he had from the waist down, and I understood he had ways of keeping enough blood in his brain to stay awake and alert, but he was in trouble and we both knew it.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Unsurprisingly, his dick was once again soft and looked kind of pathetic.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cutting a large circle through his ribs and sternum was a piece of cake with my light-knife. When I’d removed the ribs and gristle, leaving a saucer-sized hole in his chest, I once again made a production of absorbing my knife back into me. He didn’t know what I’d planned, and I could see the uncertainty and fear in his facial expression, even over the pain.</p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>Good</i>.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Not because I was enjoying his fear, but because he needed to fear me.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Okay, so I enjoyed the fear, but I felt bad about enjoying it. Does that make me a monster?</p>
      <p class="subsq">With purpose, I reached through the hole I’d cut in his ribs and sternum, and moved the lungs enough out of the way to get a good look.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Vampires can control their circulation, and he’d made his heart stop beating a while back, but it didn’t matter. He was conscious, but only because he’s so damned strong.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I met his gaze. “You’ve seen in my head, and now I’ve seen your heart.” I touched his heart, wrapped my fingers around it. It was as cold as I’d expected it to be. “The life force of the people you’ve drunk from flowed out along with the blood, didn’t it?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">No answer, and his eyes drooped almost closed. I’d topped up before coming, and I pushed energy into his heart. His eyes flew open, and I focused warmth, but not heat, into him.</p>
      <p class="subsq">He chuckled. “She taketh away. She giveth.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I could rip your heart from your chest now. Would you welcome death?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d never noticed Gavin’s eye color before, but now I saw them as grey with a hint of blue. Dark, just like his energy. His soul. The only good in his life came from what Abbott gave him. Gavin would be an unholy terror without Abbott holding his leash. A junkyard dog, terrorizing everyone he came into contact with, leaving a bloody trail until someone took him out. Probably Ryan.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I have a purpose now,” Gavin told me. “I have people who depend upon me. Abbott gave me a new family. I would no longer welcome death.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He was doing the best he could with his dark soul. I released the grip I held on his heart and pulled my hand from his chest, careful not to rip anything major loose.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I looked past him to Cora. <i>I think it’s time to feed him.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">She walked to the refrigerator and pulled out the metal sport bottle full of blood. We aimed heat at it a brief second, and she extended the straw.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“We heated it with our energy,” I told Gavin. “Drink.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The esophagus comes down behind the heart, so anything he drank would go to his stomach.</p>
      <p class="subsq">There’s something nurturing about feeding someone. There was no danger of Stockholm Syndrome here, but it was <i>so</i> easy to see how it could happen. I’d hurt him and now I was giving him comfort and sustenance.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Within an hour, he appeared whole again, though I still hadn’t taken him down. It’d take longer for his bones to grow and harden, but the skin and muscle were back, so he <i>looked</i> whole.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I’d showered and changed in the playroom’s facilities after he’d drank the blood, so I was back in clothes and he was still nude. It was time to tell him why he hated me so much, and I chose my words carefully.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You don’t fear much, but you’re terrified at the thought of losing Abbott. You could be a Master Vampire — you’re plenty strong, but you don’t trust yourself not to abuse the power and become like the men who hurt you so badly when you were young.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He glared at me, but didn’t tell me I was wrong.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Abbott’s your safety net; you’re his guard dog. It’s a healthy relationship, and I’m glad the two of you have each other. However, it means you must get rid of anything — or <i>anyone</i> — who in any way threatens your security. Your safety net. Your Master.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He lifted his chin, and I wondered if he even knew he’d just agreed with me.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I exposed a weakness in Abbott’s heretofore invulnerable walls. He couldn’t control me. I walked away. He was hurt. Lack of control exposed a weakness. You couldn’t let it stand.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“He still cares for you. You’re a liability.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I shook my head. “I was for a few weeks, but you have to admit I did everything in my power so no outsiders saw his weakness.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Doesn’t matter.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“It matters. I care about Abbott — even now, when I’m so pissed at him I want to cut <i>him</i> to pieces, but I’ve sliced into him twice and should probably avoid doing it a third time. I don’t want him dead, and I don’t want anyone else to be Master Vampire in my town. I respect his title and authority. His leadership.” I sighed. “I’m not pissed about being used as bait, but about the way he did it. I’d have used <i>myself</i> as bait, if he’d asked.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin shook his head. “It wouldn’t have worked. We needed to abduct you for real to convince Rinaldo.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I know. It’s been explained and I get it, but you went farther than you should’ve.” I took a breath and considered how to word what I needed to say. “I won’t demand an apology from you. If you’d like to offer one, I’ll accept it, but not today. Do you understand?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He wiggled his fingers. “Yeah. You want it when I’m not under duress. Why am I still in shackles?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You’re open. Naked. It’s hard to shut someone out when you’re restrained spread eagle.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He lifted a brow, but didn’t otherwise respond.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I want two things from you. First, Bran wants me to accompany him to a wolf ceremony in Salt Lake City.  Do you have a female you can send in my place? Arm candy who can help guard him, and who’ll help him out politically? Someone he’d rather have by his side than me? If he says he’d rather have me, I’ll be stuck going. I have no issues following through on my promise, but I’m not sure I can be quiet when I see human slaves treated as…” I shook my head. “My goal is to pull out of supernatural society, and I have a feeling this event would just pull me in deeper. Something tells me you know someone who’ll enjoy the party.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin smiled. “I do, and she owes me a favor. That one’s easy. What else?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“A public appearance of the three of us — you, me, and Abbott. I’ll listen to Abbott’s counsel about the best way for us to arrive and leave — as long as we have clothes on and don’t have sex.” I shook my head. “Or whatever else it takes for public perception, so we’re seen as allies and not enemies.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He looked at me without speaking, his face emotionless. I took my seat in the chair, which I noted Cora had moved back into place.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I’m not a weakness to him anymore. He’s back in his right mind and isn’t going to be stupid.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“He won’t do anything politically stupid, but don’t kid yourself about his feelings for you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I have a promise to make,” Cora said from her spot on the wall. She walked to us, uncrossed her arms, and stood slightly in front of me but to the side, so she didn’t block my view of Gavin.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I have no desire to be Alpha, but if something should happen to Kaitlin and it’s the only way to get my revenge for her death — I’ll take it in a heartbeat, and no Strigorii will be left alive in my territory.” Cora had been third in the Pack when I met her. Now she was Randall’s <i>Second</i>. Most people weren’t aware of Cora’s true power, but Gavin was in a position to understand.</p>
      <p class="subsq">The vampire looked from Cora to me, and nodded. “I’ll do what I can to fix public perception.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Just so we’re clear — if you use anything you got from my head against me or those I care about, or if you hurt me or mine again in <i>any</i> way, you’ll look back on tonight as a walk in the park. I’ll torture you in ways you can’t imagine before I kill you true.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I walked to the wall and pushed the button so the winch would let his arms down. My heels clicked once again as I returned to him, and I released a single wrist shackle.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Abbott left clothes for you in the basket by the door. I’ll send one of the wolf-guards in to feed you in a few minutes. Please join me in the basement great room when you’re able.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The room was full of vampires when we entered, but everyone left except Abbott and Kendra. I knew the vampires who’d left would still hear us though, so I spoke telepathically to Abbott.</p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>Thank you for not intervening.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">Abbott shook his head. <i>I should’ve known you wouldn’t let him off with simple torture.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>I know you were in his head and heard everything, but no one else knows, right?</i></p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>Correct. Not even Kendra.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">Someone brought a tray with various meats, cheeses, and crackers, and Cora loaded turkey and cheese onto several crackers and downed them. Her wolf had wanted to tear into Gavin a few times, and now Cora was trying to feed the animal inside her.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“This is an appetizer,” said Kendra. “Cora will have some hamburgers soon, and you’ll have a veggie burger.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“And potatoes,” Abbott said with a smile. I heard the door to the playroom open and close behind me, but I didn’t want to assume anything.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You sent someone in to feed Gavin?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I did.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Thank you. I was about to, but it’s good you knew when to.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">The world went silent — no air conditioner, no hum of a refrigerator, no ambient noises at all, and I figured Abbott had put a sound dampener around us.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You still feel as if you need revenge on me, for my part in your abduction and… subsequent activities?” he asked.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I do, but I don’t intend to act upon it.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I have a proposition.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I tilted my head but didn’t respond.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Kendra should be punished for choosing to place her friendship to you over her loyalty to me. In retrospect, I understand she felt she was being loyal to me by holding you as her friend, but she disobeyed two direct orders and there must be consequences.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I didn’t look at Kendra, but held Abbott’s gaze. He hadn’t reached the proposition yet, so I didn’t say anything.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“What you saw me do to Piers was for a light transgression, and this would be punishment for not one, but two <i>serious</i> transgressions against me.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He was taking his sweet time getting to the point, so I finished for him. “You’ll forego punishing her if I’ll call it even between us?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">A sigh. I’d taken the air out of his sails. “Yes.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Agreed.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“So easy?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Yes.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He looked at Cora, and she said, “I won’t be so easy.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I’m aware. To you, I offer my blessing for you and Kendra to speak as friends and not merely as the <i>Seconds</i> of your respective organizations. I give her permission to drop the formal notes I’d usually require of her when speaking to the <i>Second</i> in the Pack.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cora looked to me and back to Abbott. Cora didn’t think it was even close to enough.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I telepathed Abbott so Cora could hear. <i>You’ll keep her threat to Gavin to yourself.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq"><i>Randall would be most displeased if he knew she was contemplating under what circumstances she’ll take power from him. I will not tell him.</i></p>
      <p class="subsq">“I accept your offer,” Cora said aloud. “Kendra respects you as a leader, as I respect Randall.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Abbott lifted a brow but didn’t comment.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Gavin should’ve fed and come out by now. How badly did you hurt him?” asked Kendra.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“He’s fine,” Abbott told her. “Taking his pleasures with his meal while we wait. Perhaps it will put him in a better mood.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Kendra relaxed and smiled. “Well then, I assume he’s intact.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I resisted the urge to look at the clock. “If Gavin wants you to know what happened, he’ll have to tell you.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin stepped out in leather pants with no shirt, and I turned to meet his gaze.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You were conflicted.” His face was stone. Granite. No emotions. His walls were back intact.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Not enough to stop.” I said it with the conviction I felt, and I was certain every supernatural in the room would know my statement was the raw truth.</p>
      <p class="subsq">Gavin looked at Kendra. “She held my heart in her hands while I watched. She’s as bloody ruthless as you.” His hard, emotionless eyes focused on me again. “You enjoyed parts of it, despite the conflict.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I did. Nothing you say out here is subject to the confidentiality I assured you of in the playroom.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He sat beside Abbott, and the Master Vampire held his hand as if they were lovers. My instinct was to reach out for Cora, but I fortified my shield and launched us into our next conversation.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“You attacked Nathan,” I told Abbott. “You were going to kill him.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I did, and I was.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“What happened to the importance of everyone getting along? And don’t say this was a fit of rage. He killed the Pride leader you’d taken over in Mexico, but he found out all the details first. You found a Pride between protective land masses, in another country, specifically to hide the fact you owned one of Nathan’s Prides. You’ve owned it for <i>decades</i>. Long before you met me. This was part of a long-term strategy.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I don’t owe you an explanation.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Abbott was fully in <i>arrogant bastard</i> mode, but I ignored the attitude.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“The assumption is you were trying to kill him because I was screwing him.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“The werewolf known as Dawg is still alive.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Everyone knows you’re stronger than Dawg. There’s nothing to prove. Whether you’d come out on top in a fair fight with the Amakhosi? I’m not sure even the Vegas bookies would venture to guess. You want to make the rumors about you being head-over-heels for me go away? Don’t try to kill the people I’m having sex with.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Abbott sighed. “First, the idea of a<i> fair fight</i> is ludicrous. By definition, fighting means using every means at your disposal to win. I have back-up plans to my back-up plans, last-resort plans if those fail, and escape plans if <i>those</i> fail.” He gave us a cocky look. “I went to the meeting expecting to negotiate. He wanted a fight, so I gave it to him.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He looked back to Cora. “You’re here as support for Kaitlin, but you’re also <i>Second</i> to the Wolf Alpha. I’m aware nothing said in this room is given in confidence.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cora shrugged. “I’m sure you’re aware Randall’s already doing an inventory to be sure you haven’t been drinking from any of the alphas under him. My guess is you’ve used different methods for each animal group. Doing the same thing would be too obvious.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">As badly as I wanted to tell Abbott that if he killed Nathan, I’d kill him, I knew it was the wrong move. This was a giant chess game and it was time to wrap things up and leave. Besides, I was exhausted and quickly fading. It had to be four or five in the morning, and my bed was calling.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Are we at a truce? <i>All</i> of us?” I asked.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I believe everyone in this room is,” Abbott said after a good fifteen seconds, which told me he’d telepathed with Gavin to be certain.</p>
      <p class="subsq">I stood, and Cora was only a half-second behind me. I reached for her hand and breathed easier from the physical contact.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I’ll only be working for Drake Security as a therapist for employees who need my services. Should we end up in some big battle for good and evil, I’ll step back in, but otherwise I’m going to attempt to live a boring human life.” I focused on Abbott and held his gaze. “Let me know where and when you want us to be seen in public, and I’ll be there. Otherwise, it’d be nice if everyone could forget about me.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">“Will you keep fucking the Lion King?”</p>
      <p class="subsq">I sighed. “I don’t know.”</p>
      <p class="subsq">He waited for me to keep talking, but I honestly didn’t know where Nathan and I were. I’d hurt him by not standing by his side, and now he wanted to punish me in front of his lionesses. I had no idea what that meant for us.</p>
      <p class="subsq">“I don’t owe you an answer, but I’m giving it to you anyway. <i>I have no idea.</i>”</p>
      <p class="subsq">Cora and I made it upstairs and to my car, and I gave her my keys. My feet were <i>killing</i> me after standing in heels so long, but I’d instinctively known it would give me an edge with Gavin, and I’d needed every last bit of edge I could find.</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-05 08:44:10 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-05 08:44:10 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-05 08:44:35 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-05 08:44:35 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:37 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-05 08:44:38 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:38 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-05 08:44:39 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:40 INFO  - Step 18 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-05 08:44:40 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-05 08:44:43 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-05 08:44:43 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-05 08:44:44 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-05 08:44:46 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-05 08:44:47 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:50 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:51 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:52 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:44:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:44:55 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-05 08:44:55 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:44:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:44:59 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-05 08:45:00 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@2c86739e
