2023-08-21 03:24:06 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-08-21 03:24:06 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-21 03:24:40 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-21 03:24:40 INFO  - Session id - 7528bfea60864c8a30ab2f231456261a91f997f3
2023-08-21 03:24:40 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-21 03:24:40 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:43 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-21 03:24:43 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-21 03:24:43 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:44 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-21 03:24:45 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-21 03:24:45 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:24:47 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-21 03:24:51 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:51 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-21 03:24:51 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:53 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:54 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:56 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-21 03:24:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:24:59 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:25:00 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:25:01 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000003
2023-08-21 03:25:01 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - bookName: Snow Crash Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - bookName: A Platter of Figs Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - bookName: The Mystery of Mrs. Christie Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - bookName: Blessed Monsters Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 4
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:25:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000003'
2023-08-21 03:25:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:25:04 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-21 03:25:06 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:25:13 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:25:14 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-21 03:25:36 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:25:37 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-21 03:25:37 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:25:59 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-21 03:26:20 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:26:22 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-21 03:26:22 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-08-21 03:26:22 INFO  - randomBookName: Thinking Outside The Box
2023-08-21 03:26:23 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-21 03:26:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Thinking Outside The Box'
2023-08-21 03:26:27 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-21 03:26:32 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-21 03:26:33 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:26:34 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:26:44 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-21 03:26:46 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:26:47 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:26:48 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-21 03:26:49 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:26:50 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-21 03:26:50 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-21 03:27:16 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-21 03:27:17 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:18 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-08-21 03:27:18 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:19 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-08-21 03:27:19 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-21 03:27:19 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-21 03:27:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-21 03:27:21 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-GB" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch003.xhtml</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="foreword" class="section level1">
<h1 style="font-family:Calisto MT; font-size:18pt; letter-spacing:1px; padding-top:75px; padding-bottom:45px;">Foreword</h1>
<p>Let me introduce myself; I was born on 12 August 1946, in Southend-on-Sea, Essex and lived with my mum, dad and two older sisters in rented accommodation in the Southend area for the first 12 years of my life. Then my mum took on a mortgage (I said my mum because it was her that always made the big decisions in our lives, my dad just followed).</p>
<p>I became interested in music, particularly pop, and I started to learn to play the guitar at age 11. My influences were Elvis, Cliff Richard and the Shadows (at that time known as the Drifters) and most of the other popular singers and bands at that time.</p>
<p>At age 14, I, along with one of my sisters and some friends, started playing with an ouija board, and that was when I first realised that there is much more to this life than what we see with our eyes. At first, it was exciting; we were becoming aware of things and gaining knowledge about things which couldn’t possibly be known without a connection to a higher intelligence.</p>
<p>We then experienced a very dark side, one which terrified us. And after a number of scary goings-on (which upset not only me, but my family as well), we were told that if we wore a cross, we would keep mischievous spirits away. So we did, and things seemed to calm down after that.</p>
<p>When I was 19, my mum had taken on a hairdresser’s shop which one of my sisters ran, and I had the opportunity to join a local professional band. I was now, at last, doing what I thought I wanted to do for the rest of my working life.</p>
<p>Things went well and the band gained popularity, making a number of records and even achieving chart success (in Japan, of all places).</p>
<p>It was while working in that band that I was introduced to the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society, in other words, Jehovah’s Witnesses. Most members of the band were involved in it, one way or another, and their beliefs made sense to me, especially as those beliefs made me feel protected, even to the point of taking off the cross I’d worn for the last five years (I was told that Jesus died on a stake, not a cross, and that the cross was contrary to the beliefs of Jehovah’s witnesses).</p>
<p>I attended the meetings, became more and more involved, and eventually got baptised and went on to give a number of public talks to different congregations in the area.</p>
<p>At age 23, I was married, then two years later, along came my first child. It was at that time that I decided to make an effort to earn a regular, steady income and get what was then considered to be a proper job.</p>
<p>I used to enjoy driving, becoming a member of the Institute of Advanced Motorists at age 18, so I did the obvious thing at that time and trained to be a driving instructor.</p>
<p>After a while, I bought the business from the person I was working for and eventually started my own driving school. Being a driving instructor gave me a reasonable income for 28 years, during which time I built up a successful business and gave a number of lectures on safe driving.</p>
<p>It was also during that time that I had my second child. I was still a Jehovah’s Witness and took my children to the meetings regularly, even though my wife only came along on occasions to please me.</p>
<p>What really appealed to me about Jehovah’s Witnesses was the principle of loving your neighbour and your enemy, but what did not sit right with me was the belief that only Jehovah’s Witnesses would be saved at the great Armageddon. So, along with that and a few other issues, and after missing the meetings for a while due to a back problem, I eventually drifted away.</p>
<p>Now many years down the line, I find that there are still many issues with Jehovah’s Witnesses that do not feel right to me, however, it must be said, there are also many principles I still carry with me.</p>
<p>During this time, I also went back into the music business as a semi-professional (it is very rare for a musician to give it up completely; they say it’s in the blood), and this continued in one way or another and still does right up until the present time.</p>
<p>You would have thought that being a driving instructor with a successful business and being a musician <em>and</em> having a young family would lead to complete contentment, but I felt unfulfilled because of my desire to help people.</p>
<p>In 1991 came a massive recession. My driving school business virtually collapsed, I lost my house and my marriage also folded. I ended up in a two-room rented flat with just one driving school car remaining, which brought me in just enough money to survive.</p>
<p>It was during this time that I met a lady who later became my partner. After a while, I moved into her house, and together we gained a good quality of life. She encouraged me in all my life’s decisions and has continued to do so right up until the present time.</p>
<p>Incidentally, in 2018, she became my wife after 22 years of being my partner (I never did believe in rushing things).</p>
<p>Because my interest in being a driving instructor had severely waned, I took the bull by the horns, gave up that job and started training to be a therapist. I wanted to train as a psychologist, but finances at the time did not permit, so I went to night school and trained as a hypnotherapist.</p>
<p>Then came the thirst for more therapies; the study of magnetic therapy, energy therapy, oriental medicine, then finally after a visit to America, the study of blood and gene types and their connection with diet and disease.</p>
<p>During this time, I started a Complementary Clinic, then later a blood group diet clinic. I also gave a series of lectures and did a number of radio interviews.</p>
<p>My partner gave up her job and worked with me as a receptionist in the clinics and things were going very well, but I could not help feeling that I still was not completely fulfilled; I now had the tools to help people to improve the state of their body <em>and</em> their mind, but something was still missing.</p>
<p>I attempted to deal with this in my clinics and in my lectures, but I did not have a counselling qualification and to be honest, I didn’t want one; surely wisdom gained through experience and inspiration is far more valuable than knowledge which is found by reading books.</p>
<p>Most therapists will agree that the knowledge found in the instruction manuals gets thrown out of the window as soon as you have your qualifications anyway—I remember clearly the words of my Shiatsu instructor on gaining my qualification, “You’ve got your qualification, now forget the theory and go out there and experience being a real therapist.”</p>
<p>My therapy work was also interrupted by me officiating at my mother’s funeral service at her request in 1997, then being asked to conduct subsequent funeral services, ending with me gradually doing my therapies less and less, and becoming a funeral service officiant.</p>
<p>My need to help people has been greatly fulfilled in this occupation, but I still feel the need to culminate everything I have learned and put it in an easy-to-understand language. My ultimate goal now is to help anyone who wants to listen, to change their lives for the better as I have been privileged to do in my life.</p>
<p>I have been very privileged to have learnt and understood what I now believe wholeheartedly to be the way to find lasting contentment, and I want to share it with you, so the first part of this book is to give you what I believe to be the answers to some burning questions which have continued to plague mankind from the very beginning.</p>
<p>This information is not only a culmination of what I have learnt over many years of having an inquisitive nature, it is probably mainly from inspiration that comes to me because I ask for it, and if it helps you then my work is done.</p>
<p>I have had the privilege to give a talk as a funeral service officiant to thousands of people over the years which is titled: <em>Is there such a thing as an Afterlife?</em> At some point in the not-too-distant future, I will not be in a position to give that talk anymore, so I want to share it with as many people as possible, not just now, but also after I leave this world behind (you will find the talk in chapter five of this book).</p>
<p>Please do not think that this is advice coming from someone who has perfected all the techniques you will read about. I am in the same boat as you, it’s just that I am privileged to know how to find true contentment and I want to share it with you.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
2023-08-21 03:27:21 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-21 03:27:22 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-21 03:27:25 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-21 03:27:27 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:31 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:33 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:35 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:27:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:27:37 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:27:58 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:27:59 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-21 03:27:59 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@4cb72498
