2023-08-21 03:17:20 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-08-21 03:17:20 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-08-21 03:17:47 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-08-21 03:17:47 INFO  - Session id - bf283410372370f1af73ae87f45968784fce3d89
2023-08-21 03:17:47 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-08-21 03:17:47 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:49 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-08-21 03:17:50 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-08-21 03:17:50 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:50 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-08-21 03:17:51 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-08-21 03:17:51 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:17:53 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-08-21 03:17:54 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:55 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-08-21 03:17:55 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:56 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:57 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:59 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-08-21 03:17:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:17:59 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:18:00 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:18:02 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:18:02 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-08-21 03:18:02 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: Cryptonomicon Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:18:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-08-21 03:18:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-08-21 03:18:05 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-08-21 03:18:06 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:18:12 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:18:13 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-08-21 03:18:33 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:18:34 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-08-21 03:18:34 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:18:56 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-08-21 03:19:17 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:19:18 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Bibliotheca' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-08-21 03:19:18 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-08-21 03:19:18 INFO  - randomBookName: The Promise
2023-08-21 03:19:18 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-21 03:19:18 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Promise'
2023-08-21 03:19:21 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-08-21 03:19:24 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-21 03:19:25 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:19:26 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:19:32 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-08-21 03:19:33 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:19:33 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:19:34 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-08-21 03:19:35 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:19:35 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-08-21 03:19:35 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-08-21 03:20:01 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-08-21 03:20:03 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:03 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-08-21 03:20:03 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:04 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-08-21 03:20:05 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-08-21 03:20:05 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-08-21 03:20:06 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-21 03:20:06 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily: serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <link />
    <title></title>
  <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:b244665e-c5f0-46ac-b921-d5479de9f54b" name="Adept.expected.resource" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><h2 class="heading"> </h2>
			<p class="firstparagraph"><span class="dropcap">T</span>he moment the metal box speaks her name, Amor knows it’s happened. She’s been in a tense, headachy mood all day, almost like she had a warning in a dream but can’t remember what it is. Some sign or image, just under the surface. Trouble down below. Fire underground.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But when the words are said to her aloud, she doesn’t believe them. She closes her eyes and shakes her head. No, no. It can’t be true, what her aunt has just told her. Nobody is dead. It’s a word, that’s all. She looks at the word, lying there on the desk like an insect on its back, with no explanation.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This is in Miss Starkey’s office, where the voice over the Tannoy told her to go. Amor has been waiting and waiting for this moment for so long, has imagined it so many times, that it already seems like a fact. But now that the moment has really come, it feels far away and dreamy. It hasn’t happened, not actually. And especially not to Ma, who will always, always be alive.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m sorry, Miss Starkey says again, covering her big teeth behind thin, pressed-together lips. Some of the other girls say Miss Starkey is a lesbian, but it’s hard to imagine her doing anything sexy with anyone. Or maybe she did once and has been permanently disgusted ever since. It’s a sorrow we all have to bear, she adds in a serious voice, while Tannie Marina trembles and dabs at her eyes with a tissue, though she has always looked down on Ma and doesn’t care at all that she’s dead, even if she isn’t.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Her aunt goes downstairs with her and waits outside while Amor has to go back to the hostel to pack her suitcase. She’s been living here for the past seven months, waiting for what hasn’t happened to happen, and every second of that time she’s hated these long, cold rooms with their linoleum floors, but now that she has to leave, she doesn’t want to go. All she wants to do is lie down on her bed and fall asleep and never, never wake up. Like Ma? No, not like Ma, because Ma is not asleep.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Slowly, she puts her clothes into the suitcase and then carries it down to the front of the main school building, where her aunt is standing, looking into the fishpond. That’s a big fat one, she says, pointing into the depths, have you ever seen such a big goldfish? And Amor says that she hasn’t, even though she can’t see which fish her aunt is pointing at and none of it is real anyway.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">When she gets into the Cressida, that isn’t real either, and as they float down the winding school drive the view from the window is a dream. The jacarandas are all in bloom and the bright purple blossoms are gaudy and strange. Her own voice sounds echoey, as if somebody else is speaking, when they get to the main gate and turn right instead of left, and she hears herself ask where they are going.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">To my house, her aunt says. To get Uncle Ockie. I had to rush out last night when it, you know, when it happened.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(It did not happen.)</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Tannie Marina glances sideways with little mascara-rimmed eyes, but still no reaction from the girl. The older woman’s disappointment is almost palpable, like a secret fart. She could have sent Lexington to fetch Amor from school, but instead she has come personally, because she likes to be helpful in a crisis, everyone knows that. Behind her round face with its kabuki make-up, she is hungry for drama and gossip and cheap spectacle. Bloodshed and treachery on the TV is one thing, but here real life has served up an actual, thrilling opportunity. The terrible news, delivered in public, in front of the headmistress! But her niece, the useless plump lump, has hardly said a word. Really, there is something wrong with the child, Marina has noticed it before. She blames it on the lightning. Ag, shame, she was never the same after that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Have a rusk, her aunt tells her crossly. They’re on the back seat.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But Amor doesn’t want a rusk. She has no appetite. Tannie Marina is always baking things and trying to feed them to people. Her sister Astrid says it’s so she doesn’t have to be fat alone, and it’s true their aunt has published two cookbooks of teatime treats, popular with a particular kind of older white woman, much in evidence these days. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Well, Tannie Marina reflects, at least the child is easy to speak to. She doesn’t interrupt or argue and gives the impression she’s paying attention, all that’s required. It’s not a long drive from the school to where the Laubschers live in Menlo Park, but time feels stretched today and Tannie Marina talks in emotive Afrikaans the whole way, her voice low and confiding, full of diminutives, even though her motives are not benign. It’s the usual topic, about how Ma has betrayed the whole family by changing her religion. Correction, by going back to her old religion. To being a Jew! Her aunt has been extremely vocal on this subject for the past half a year, ever since Ma fell ill, but what is Amor supposed to do about it? She’s just a child, she has no power, and anyway what’s so wrong about going back to your own religion if you want to? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She tries not to listen, by focusing on something else. Her aunt wears little white golfing gloves when she drives, an affectation from who knows where, or maybe just a fear of germs, and Amor fixates on the pale shapes of her hands, moving on the steering wheel. If she can keep focused on the hands, the shape of them, with their short, blunt fingers, she will not have to listen to what the mouth above the hands is saying, and then it will not be true. The only thing that is true is the hands, and me looking at the hands. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">. . . The truth is that your mother gave up Dutch Reformed and went back to the Jewish thing just to spite my little brother . . . It’s so she won’t be buried on the farm, next to her husband, that’s the actual reason . . . There’s a right way and a wrong way and I’m sorry to say your mother chose the wrong way . . . Well, anyhow, Tannie Marina sighs as they arrive at the house, let’s just hope God forgives her and she is at peace now.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">They park in the driveway under the awning, with its beautiful green and purple and orange stripes. Beyond it, a diorama of white South Africa, the tin-roofed suburban bungalow made of reddish face brick, surrounded by a moat of bleached garden. Jungle gym looking lonely on a big brown lawn. Concrete birdbath, a Wendy house and a swing made from half a truck tyre. Where you, perhaps, also grew up. Where all of it began.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor follows her aunt, not quite on the ground, a few centimetres above it, a giddy little gap between her and things, as she heads for the kitchen door. Inside, Oom Ockie is mixing himself a brandy-and-Coke, his second of the morning. He has recently retired from his government job as a draughtsman in Water Affairs and his days are listless. He jumps to guilty attention when he’s bust by his wife, sucking on his nicotine-stained moustache. He’s had hours to dress himself properly, but is still wearing tracksuit pants and a golfing shirt and slipslops. A blockish man with thinning hair Brylcreemed sideways across his scalp. He gives Amor a clammy hug, very awkward for both of them. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Sorry about your mother, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh, that’s okay, Amor says, and immediately starts to cry. Will people be sorry for her all day because her mother has become that word? She feels ugly when she cries, like a tomato breaking open, and thinks that she must get away, away from this horrible little room with its parquet floor and barking Maltese poodle and the eyes of her aunt and uncle sticking into her like nails.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She hastens past Oom Ockie’s gloomy fish tank, up the passage, its walls marked with a dimpled-plaster effect popular in these parts at this time, to the bathroom. No need to dwell on how she washes away her tears, except to mention that, even as she continues to snivel, Amor opens the door of the medicine cabinet to look inside, something she does in every home she visits. Sometimes what you find is interesting, but these shelves are full of depressing items like denture cream and Anusol. Then she feels guilty for having looked and to absolve herself has to count the objects on each shelf and rearrange them into a more pleasing order. Then she thinks that her aunt will notice and disarranges them again. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">On her way back down the passage Amor pauses at the open bedroom door of her cousin Wessel, youngest and largest of Tannie Marina’s brood, and the only one still living at home. He’s already twenty-four but ever since finishing the army he’s done nothing except sit around at home, attending to his stamp collection. Apparently he has some problem with going out into the world. He’s depressed, according to his father, and his mother says that he’s finding his way. But Pa has voiced the opinion that his nephew is just lazy and spoiled and should be forced to do some work. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor doesn’t like her cousin, and especially not at this moment, with those big, blobby hands and his pudding-bowl haircut, and the suspect way he says the letter S. He would never make eye contact anyway, but he hardly notices her right now, because his stamp album is open on his lap, and he’s peering through a magnifying glass at one of the favourites of his collection, the set of three commemorating Dr. Verwoerd, issued a few months after the great man’s murder. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What are you doing here?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Your mother picked me up from school. Then she came to get your father and some groceries.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh. And now you’re going home?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Sorry about your mother, he says, and glances at her at last. She can’t help it, she starts crying again and has to dry her eyes on her sleeve. But his attention is back on the stamps. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are you very sad? he asks absently, still not looking at her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She shakes her head. At this moment it’s true, she doesn’t feel anything, just vacant. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Did you love her?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Of course, she says. But even in response to this question, nothing stirs inside. Makes her wonder if she’s telling the truth.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Half an hour later, she sits on the back seat of Ockie’s old Valiant. Her uncle, who has dressed in his church outfit, brown trousers and yellow shirt and shiny shoes, sits jug-eared in the driver’s seat in front of her, smoke from his cigarette scribbling across the windscreen. Next to him his wife, who has freshened up and sprayed herself with Je T’aime and brought along a bag of baking supplies from her kitchen. At this moment they are driving past the cemetery on the western edge of the city, where a small crowd stands around a hole in the ground, and nearby is the Jewish cemetery where very soon, but no, don’t think about that, and don’t look at the graves, though you can’t help seeing the sign for Heroes’ Acre, but who are the heroes, nobody ever explained, is Ma a hero now, don’t think about that either, and then you are sinking into that horrible zone of cement and car washes and dirty-looking blocks of flats on the other side. If you stick with the usual road you will soon leave the city behind, but you can’t take the usual road today because it goes past Atteridgeville and there is trouble in the township. Trouble in all the townships, it’s being muttered about everywhere, even with the State of Emergency hanging over the land like a dark cloud and the news under censorship and the mood all over a bit electrified, a bit alarmed, there is no silencing the voices that talk away under everything, like the thin crackle of static. But whose are they, the voices, why can’t we hear them now? Shhh, you’ll hear them, if you pay attention, if you will only listen. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph"> . . . We are the last outpost on this continent . . . If South Africa falls, Moscow will be drinking champagne . . . Let’s be clear about it, majority rule means communism . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ockie switches off the radio. He’s not in the mood for political speeches, much nicer to look at the view. He imagines himself one of his Voortrekker ancestors, rolling slowly into the interior in an ox-wagon. Yes, there are those who dream in predictable ways. Ockie the brave pioneer, floating over the plain. A brown-and-yellow countryside passes outside, dry except for where a river cuts through it, under a huge Highveld sky. The farm, which is what they call it, though it is in no meaningful way a real farm, one horse and a few cows and some chickens and sheep, is out there among the low hills and valleys, halfway to the Hartbeespoort Dam. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Off to one side, over a fence, he can see a group of men with a metal detector, watching some native boys dig holes in the ground. This whole valley once belonged to Paul Kruger and there are persistent rumours that two million pounds in Boer War gold have been buried somewhere under these stones. So, dig here, dig there, hunting the wealth of the past. It’s greedy, but even this gives him a nostalgic glow. My people are a valiant, durable bunch, they outlasted the British and they will outlast the kaffirs too. Afrikaners are a nation apart, he really believes that. He doesn’t understand why Manie had to marry Rachel. Oil and water don’t mix. You can see it in their children, fuckups, the lot of them.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In this perception, at least, he and his wife are in harmony. Marina never liked her sister-in-law. Everything about the arrangement was wrong. Why couldn’t her brother just marry into his own tribe? I made a mistake, he said, and you pay for your mistakes. Manie was always stupid-stubborn. To go against the wishes of his own family for somebody like that, vain and proud, who of course dropped him in the end. Because of sex. Because he just couldn’t keep his hands off. An activity Marina herself has never much cared for, except that one time in Sun City with the mechanic, but aieee, be quiet, don’t bring that up now. Always my brother’s downfall, ever since he started shaving he turned into a little goat, having fun and causing trouble, till he made his mistake and then everything changed. The mistake is somewhere out there now, doing his military service. They sent a message to him this morning, he’ll only get home tomorrow.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton will only be home tomorrow, she tells Amor, then falls to adjusting her lipstick in the visor mirror. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">They arrive at the turn-off from the wrong side and Amor has to get out to open the gate and close it again behind the car. Then they are bumping along a rough gravel road, rocks sticking up in places, scraping metallically at the undercarriage. The noise seems heightened to Amor, biting into her. Her headache is worse. While they were on the open road she could almost pretend she was nowhere, drifting along. But now all her senses are telling her they’re about to arrive. She doesn’t want to get to the house, because when she does it will obviously be true that something has happened, that something has changed in her life and will never change back again. She doesn’t want the road to do what it does, go under the pylons and head towards the koppie, she doesn’t want it to go up the rise, she doesn’t want to see the house in the dip on the other side. But there it is, and she sees it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Never liked it much. A weird little place to start with, even when her grandfather first bought it, who would build in that style out here in the bush? But then when Oupa drowned in the dam and Pa inherited it he started adding rooms and outbuildings that had no style at all, though he called them vernacular. No logic to his plans, but according to Ma it was because he wanted to cover up the original art deco, which he thought looked effeminate. Oh, what rubbish, said Pa, my approach is practical. Supposed to be a farm, not a fantasy. But just look at how it ended up. A big mishmash of a place, twenty-four doors on the outside that have to be locked at night, one style stuck on another. Sitting out here in the middle of the veld, like a drunk wearing odd bits of clothing.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Still, thinks Tannie Marina, it’s ours. Don’t look at the house, think about the land. Useless ground, full of stones, you can do nothing with it. But it belongs to our family, nobody else, and there’s power in that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And at least, she says aloud to Ockie, the wife is out of the picture at last. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Then, oh God, remembers the child in the back seat. Have to watch what you say, Marina, especially for the next couple of days, till the funeral is over. Speak in English, it will keep you in check.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Don’t understand me wrong, she says to Amor. I respected your mother.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(No, you didn’t.) But Amor doesn’t say it aloud. She has become very rigid in the back of the car, which is finally coasting to a stop. Ockie has to park a little way down the drive, because there are too many other cars in front of the house, unfamiliar cars mostly, what are they doing here? Already there is an inward pull of people and events, drawn towards the Ma-shaped hole at the heart. As she gets out, closing the door with a thunk, Amor sees one car in particular, a long dark one, and the heaviness of the world gets worse. Who is the driver of that car, why is he parked outside my house?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I told the Jewish people not to take her yet, Tannie Marina announces. So that you can say goodbye to your mother.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At first Amor doesn’t understand. Crunch crunch crunch goes the gravel. Through the front windows she can see a crowd of people in the lounge, a dense fog of them, and at the centre is her father, bowed over in a chair. He’s crying, she thinks, then it comes to her instead, No, he’s praying. Crying or praying, it’s hard to tell the difference with Pa these days.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Then she does understand and thinks, I cannot go in. The driver of that dark car is waiting inside so that I can say goodbye to my mother and I can’t go through the door. If I go through the door it will be true and my life will never be the same. So she delays outside, while Marina clip-clops importantly ahead with her bags of ingredients, Ockie shuffling in behind her, and then she drops her suitcase on the steps and shoots around the side of the house, past the lightning conductor and the gas canisters in their concrete alcove in the wall and over the back patio where Tojo the Alsatian lies sleeping in the sun, purple balls showing between his legs, over the lawn, past the birdbath and the kapok tree, past the stable buildings and the labourers’ cottages behind, running towards the koppie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where is she? She was right behind us.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Marina can’t believe what that damn fool girl has done.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, Ockie confirms and then, eager to contribute, repeats it. Ja!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ag, she’ll come back. Marina is in no mood for indulgence. Let these people take the poor woman away now. The chance is wasted on the child.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The driver of the long car, Mervyn Glass, has been sitting for the past two hours in the kitchen, wearing his yarmulke, waiting on the instruction of the bossy woman, the sister of the bereaved, who is now telling him to get moving. This is a very difficult family, he can’t work out what’s going on, but doesn’t appear to mind. Waiting in respectful silence is an essential part of the job and he has developed the capacity to simulate deep calm while experiencing none of it. In his core, Mervyn Glass is a frantic man.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Now he springs to his feet. He and his helper proceed to remove the mortal remains of the deceased from the upstairs bedroom. This involves a stretcher and a body bag and a final display of anguish from the spouse, who clutches at his dead wife and implores her not to go, as if she is leaving of her own volition and can be persuaded to change her mind. Nor is this uncommon, as Mervyn will tell you if you ask him. He has seen all of it before many times, including the curious pull that a corpse exerts, drawing people towards it. By tomorrow already this will have changed, the body will be long gone and its permanent absence covered over with plans, arrangements, reminiscences and time. Yes, already. The disappearance begins immediately and in a certain sense never ends.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But in the meantime there is the body, the horrible meaty fact of it, the thing that reminds everyone, even people who didn’t care for the dead woman, and there are always a few of those, that one day they shall lie there too, just like her, emptied out of everything, merely a form, unable even to look at itself. And the mind recoils from its absence, cannot think of itself not thinking, the coldest of voids.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Fortunately she isn’t heavy, the sickness hollowed her out, and it’s easy to get her down the stairs and around the challenging angle at the bottom and along the passage to the kitchen. Out the back, the bossy sister orders them, down the side of the house, don’t carry it past the guests. If the visitors are aware of this final departure, it’s only in the sound of the long car starting up outside, the note of the engine a fading vibration on the air.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Then Rachel is gone, truly gone. She came here as a pregnant bride twenty years ago and hasn’t left since, but she will never walk back in through the front door again.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the hearse, I mean the house, a certain unspoken fear has ebbed, even if people aren’t sure why and it’s barely been said in words. Most of the time, in fact, it’s words that deflect fear, Can I get you another cup of tea? Would you like to try one of my rusks? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Marina speaking, of course, she’s adept at pouring oily phrases onto turbulent depths that threaten to spill over. While she twists her necklace.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, I’m not hungry.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And that’s Manie, her much-younger brother, who looks to her eyes like an owl, a baby owl she’d picked up and kept once as a child. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Come now, have some tea at least. You’re dehydrated from all that crying.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh please please please, he says with a vehemence that sounds like anger, though he may not be speaking to her. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What happened to that owl? Something bad, she seems to remember, though she can’t quite pin it down.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’ll never drink tea again, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ag no, she says irritably, don’t talk nonsense. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She doesn’t understand why he’s taking his wife’s death so badly, the woman has been dying for half a year now, he’s had ages to prepare for today. But Manie is unravelling, like the bottom of his jersey, she’s noticed him jerking at the thread. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Stop that, she tells him. Take it off and give it to me to fix.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Dumbly, he obeys. She carries it away and goes in search of a needle and thread. If Rachel keeps such things. Kept. The mental correction is satisfying, like a stiff joint clicking into place. Rachel will always be in the past tense now.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie shivers without his jersey, although the spring day is warm. Will he ever thaw out again? Never while she was alive did he need Rachel as fiercely as he does right now and her absence is like a steely coldness deep inside. She knew how to get to that innermost part of me, sticking her little knives in there. Couldn’t tell the difference between hate and love, that’s how close we were. Two trees twisted together, roots locked like fate. Who wouldn’t want to escape? But only God can judge me, only He knows! Forgive me, God, I mean to say, Rachel, my flesh is weaker than most.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Crying again. Marina sees him from across the room. She has after all discovered a sewing kit in a drawer and settled herself into a corner, from where she can observe the traffic in the house while being publicly helpful. Stitching and baking, she has practical hands. But is nevertheless so distracted by the sight of her husband passing, holding a fresh drink, that she stabs herself on one finger.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And just then, out of nowhere, remembers what happened to the owl. Ag, shame. Those white feathers clotted with blood.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Eh, I’m watching you, she calls to Ockie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But he’s drifted on, moustache tasting of brandy, thinking inside, Shut up, who are you? He has, for the moment, forgotten why he’s here and says to a man in the lounge, You having a good time?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What? the man says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But Ockie has recollected himself and jiggles back and forth on his feet. You know, under the circumstances, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The man he’s talking to is a trainee minister in the Dutch Reformed Church. Tall and nervous, with a pronounced Adam’s apple, this trainee minister, over the past year, unbeknownst to anybody, has almost completely lost his faith. He feels himself stumbling in a thorny wilderness and consequently smiles a great deal. At the moment that Ockie addresses him, he is smiling to himself while he ponders this very question, of not believing in anything any more, and jumps guiltily when he’s spoken to.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor can see the two of them, her uncle and the doubting dominee, through the sliding glass doors of the lounge. From the top of the koppie she can see the whole front of the house, all the windows on display, which is why she likes to sit here, although she’s not supposed to do it alone. It’s never been so busy down there on the ground floor, multiple human figures moving around like toy people in a toy building. But her attention is not on them. She is looking at only one window, upstairs, third from the left, thinking, She’s in there. If I just go down the hill and up the stairs, she’ll be in her room, waiting for me. Like always.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And she can see somebody moving around in there. A female figure, bustling about. If she half closes her eyes, Amor can imagine that it really is her mother, her body strong and healthy again, cleaning up the medicine from next to her bed. Not needed any more. Ma is better again, time has been turned back, the world is restored. Easy as that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But she knows she’s just pretending and the person in the room isn’t Ma. It’s Salome, of course, who has been here on the farm for ever, or that’s how it feels. My grandfather always talked about her like that, Oh, Salome, I got her along with the land. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pause a moment to observe, as she takes the sheets off the bed. A stout, solid woman, wearing a second-hand dress, given to her by Ma years ago. A headscarf tied over her hair. She is barefoot, and the soles of her feet are cracked and dirty. Her hands have marks on them too, the scuffs and scars of innumerable collisions. Same age as Ma supposedly, forty, though she looks older. Hard to put an exact number on her. Not much shows in her face, she wears her life like a mask, like a graven image.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But some things you do know, because you saw them yourself. In the same impassive way that Salome sweeps and cleans the house and washes the clothes of the people who live in it, she looked after Ma through her last illness, dressing and undressing her, helping her to bathe with a bucket of hot water and a lappie, helping her to go to the toilet, yes, even wiping her arse for her after she used the bedpan, mopping up blood and shit and pus and piss, all the jobs that people in her own family didn’t want to do, too dirty or too intimate, Let Salome do it, that’s what she’s paid for, isn’t it? She was with Ma when she died, right there next to the bed, though nobody seems to see her, she is apparently invisible. And whatever Salome feels is invisible too. She has been told, Clean up here, wash the sheets, and she obeys, she cleans up, she washes the sheets.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But Amor can see her through the window, so she’s not invisible after all. Thinking about a memory, not understood till now, of an afternoon just two weeks ago, in that same room, with Ma and Pa. They forgot I was there, in the corner. They didn’t see me, I was like a black woman to them.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(Do you promise me, Manie?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Holding on to him, skeleton hands grabbing, like in a horror film. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, I’ll do it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because I really want her to have something. After everything she’s done.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I understand, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Promise me you’ll do it. Say the words.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I promise, Pa says, choked-sounding.)</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She sees the picture still, her parents tangled together like Jesus and His mother, a terrible sad knot of clutching and crying. The sound somewhere else, higher up and apart, the words not reaching her till now. But finally she understands who they were talking about. Of course. Obviously. Duh.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She’s sitting in the spot she likes, between the rocks, at the bottom of the burnt tree. Where I was when the lightning struck, where I nearly died. Pow, white fire dropping out of the sky. As if God pointed at you, Pa says, but how would he know, he wasn’t here when it happened. The wrath of the Lord is like an avenging flame. But I didn’t burn, not like the tree. Except for my feet.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In hospital two months, recovering. There is still tenderness in the soles, and one small toe is missing. She touches it now, fingering the scar. One day, she says aloud. One day I’ll. But the thought breaks off midway and what she’ll do one day hangs there, suspended.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What’s happening now is that somebody else is climbing the hill from the other side. A human figure approaching, filling itself in slowly, putting on age and sex and race, like items of clothing, till she’s looking at a black boy, also thirteen years old, wearing ragged shorts and T-shirt, broken takkies on his feet.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Sweat sticks cloth on skin. Pull it loose with your fingers.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hello, Lukas, she says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Howzit, Amor.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">First it is necessary to beat the earth with a stick. Then he settles himself on a rock. Easy to speak to each other. Not the first time they’ve met up here. Children still, on the verge of not being children any more.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m sorry about your mommy, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She nearly cries again, but doesn’t. It’s all right when he says it, because Lukas’s father died too, on a gold mine near Johannesburg, when he was only little. Something joins them together. What she just remembered spills over, she wants to tell him about it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s yours now, the house, she says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He looks at her, not understanding.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">My mother told my father to give it to your mother. A Christian never goes back on his word.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He looks down the hill to the other side, where he lives, in the crooked little house. The Lombard place. That’s what everyone calls it, even though old Mrs. Lombard died years ago, before Amor’s grandfather bought it to stop that Indian family moving in and let Salome live there instead. Some names stick, some don’t.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Our house?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’ll be yours now.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He blinks, still confused. It’s always been his house. He was born there, he sleeps there, what is the white girl talking about? Growing bored, he spits and stands up. She notices how long and strong his legs have become, the wiry hairs growing on his thighs. She can smell him too, the stink of sweat. All this is new, or maybe the noticing is new, and she’s embarrassed already, even before she’s aware he’s looking at her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What? she says, huddling over, arms on her knees. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Nothing.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He jumps over to her rock, crouches down next to her. His bare leg is close to hers, she can feel the warmth and prickle, she jerks her knee away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Urgh, she says. You need to wash.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He gets up quickly and leaps back to the other rock. Now she feels sorry for chasing him away, but doesn’t know what to say. He picks up his stick and hits with it again.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oraait, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Okay.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He walks back down the hill the same way he came up, slashing with the stick at the white tops of the grass, pushing it into termite hills. Letting the world know he’s there.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She watches him till he disappears, feeling lighter now because the big black car has gone and a big blackness that was sitting on her has gone too. Then she wanders down the other side of the koppie, pausing here and there to look at a rock or a leaf, to her own house, or the house she thinks of as her own. By the time she comes in through the back door, a hundred and thirty-three minutes and twenty-two seconds have passed since she ran away. Four cars, including the long dark one, have departed, a single new one has arrived. The telephone has rung eighteen times, the doorbell twice, on one occasion because somebody has sent flowers that improbably turn up all the way out here. Twenty-two cups of tea, six mugs of coffee, three glasses of cool drink and six brandy-and-Cokes have been consumed. The three toilets downstairs, unused to such traffic, have between them flushed twenty-seven times, carrying away nine point eight litres of urine, five point two litres of shit, one stomachful of regurgitated food and five millilitres of sperm. Numbers go on and on, but what does mathematics help? In any human life there is really only one of everything.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">As she creeps into the kitchen she can hear distant voices, though this part of the house is quiet. She climbs the stairs to the second floor. Starts up the passage to her room. On the way she has to pass the door to Ma’s room, empty now, Salome gone to wash the bedding, and even though she knows what didn’t happen didn’t happen here, she must, she has to, go inside.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Small girl looking at her mother’s things. She knows all of it by heart, how many steps from the door to the bed, where the light switch is for the lamp, the swirly orange pattern in the carpet like the onset of a headache, etc., etc. Out the corner of her eye she thinks she sees Ma’s face appear in the mirror, but when she looks directly it’s gone. Instead she can smell her mother, or a mix of smells she thinks of as her mother, but are actually the traces of recent events, involving puke, incense, blood, medicine, perfume and an underlying dark note, perhaps the smell of the sickness itself. Exhaled by the walls, hovering in the air.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She’s not here.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Her sister Astrid speaking, who has somehow spotted her and followed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">They took her away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I know that. I saw.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The bed has been stripped and the bare mattress stained with something indefinable. Both of them look at that intense dark outline as if it’s the map of a new continent, fascinating and fearful.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I was with her when she died, Astrid says at last, her voice vibrating because she’s telling an untruth. She wasn’t with her mother when she died. She was behind the stables, talking with Dean de Wet, the boy from Rustenburg who comes to help on the farm sometimes, cleaning out the stables. Dean’s father passed away a few years ago, and he’s been counselling Astrid through her mother’s dying. He’s a plain, sincere boy, and she likes his attention, part of a larger male awareness she’s become receptive to lately. So the only people who were with Rachel Swart when her time came were her husband, aka Pa or Manie, and the black girl, what’s her name again, Salome, who obviously doesn’t count.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I should have been there. So Astrid thinks. That she was flirting with Dean instead only adds to her guilt. She believes, wrongly, that her younger sister knows the truth about her. Not only this truth, others too. For example, that she vomited up her lunch half an hour ago, as she regularly does, in order to stay slim. She is prone to paranoid fears like these, suspecting sometimes that her mind can be secretly read by people around her, or that life is an elaborate performance in which everybody else is acting and she alone is not. Astrid is a fearful person. Among other things, she’s afraid of the dark, poverty, thunderstorms, getting fat, earthquakes, tidal waves, crocodiles, the blacks, the future, the orderly structures of society coming undone. Of being unloved. Of always having been that way.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But now Amor is crying again, because Astrid said that word as if it is a fact and it isn’t, it isn’t, even though the house is full of people who shouldn’t be there, aren’t normally there, or not at the same time.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">We should be getting ready, Astrid says impatiently. You need to change out of that uniform.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Getting ready for what?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid has no answer, which irritates her. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where did you go? We were all looking for you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I climbed up the koppie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You know you’re not allowed up there alone. And what are you doing in here? In her bedroom?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I was just looking.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Looking at what?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I don’t know.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This is the truth, she doesn’t know, she is just looking, that’s all.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Go and get changed, Astrid orders her, trying out an adult voice, now that a position has become vacant.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You can’t boss me around, Amor says, but she does go, just to escape Astrid, who, the moment she’s left alone in the room, picks up a bracelet she’s spotted lying on the bedside table, a pretty little circlet of blue and white beads. She has seen her mother wearing it, she has tried it on before. Now she slips it onto her wrist again, feels it snugly taking her pulse. She decides that it has always belonged to her. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I am not beautiful. So thinks Amor, not for the first time, as she regards herself in the mirror behind her cupboard door. She’s in her underwear, which includes a small, recently acquired bra, the sensation of budding flesh still new and unsettling. Her hips have widened, and the thickening seems heavy to her, exaggerated, obscene. She dislikes her stomach and her thighs and the way that her shoulders hang down. She dislikes her whole body, as many of you do, but with special adolescent intensity, and it seems even more present than usual today, more thickly, heatedly present.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At such moments of internal gathering, the air around her becomes charged with clairvoyance. It’s happened a few times recently that she’s known in advance, just a millisecond ahead of time, that a picture will drop off the wall, a window will fly open, a pencil will roll across the desk. Today she looks past her reflection in the mirror, feeling certain that a fire-blackened tortoise shell, which sits on the bedside table, will lift into the air. She watches it lift. As if she’s carrying it with her eyes, she observes it move calmly into the middle of the room. Then she lets it drop, or throws it perhaps, for it smashes quite forcefully onto the floor and breaks. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The tortoise shell is, or rather was, one of very few objects she’s collected, all of them picked up in the veld out there. A weirdly shaped stone, a tiny mongoose skull, a long white feather. Otherwise the room is empty of the usual signs and clues, it contains just the single bed with its blanket, the bedside table and lamp, the cupboard and chest of drawers, the wooden floor with no carpet or covering. The walls are also bare. When the girl herself is absent, the room is like a blank page, almost no marks or clues to say anything about her, which perhaps does say something about her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She’s holding a piece of the tortoise shell when she descends the stairs a little later. There are still people drifting about, and she keeps her eyes straight ahead and moves towards the figure of her father, still slumped over in the chair. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where were you? Pa says. We were very worried.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I was on the koppie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor. You know you’re not supposed to be there by yourself. Why do you always go back?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I didn’t want to see her. I ran away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What’re you holding?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She hands over the shard of gnarled shell, not quite able to remember, in her dazed state, what it is or where it comes from. It looks like a giant old toenail, how disgusting, sis. Something she’s picked up out there. Always bringing in scurvy bits and pieces from the natural world. He almost throws it away but the impetus fades and he holds it like she did, limply.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Come here.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Now he’s filled with a great tenderness for her, both profound and sentimental. So defenceless, a simple soul. My child, my little child. Gathers her to him and suddenly both of them melt back to a similar moment seven years ago, in the whiteness just after the lightning strike, the dreamy half-awake aftermath of the accident. Carrying Amor down the koppie. Save her. Save her, Lord, and I’ll be Yours for ever. For Manie, it was like Moses descending the mountain, it was the afternoon the Holy Spirit touched him and his life changed. Amor remembers it differently, as the reek of burnt meat on the air, like a braaivleis, the stink of sacrifice at the centre of the world.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The koppie. Lukas. The conversation. It’s what she came downstairs to say and she pushes back from where she’s been squashed into his shirt and the smell of sweat and grief and Brut deodorant.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You will keep your promise, she says. Not clear to either of them whether it’s a statement or a question.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What promise is that?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You know. What Ma asked you to do.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pa is weary, almost granular, all the sand might run out of him soon. Ja, he says vaguely, if I promised then I’ll do it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You will do it?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I said I will. He takes a hanky out of his jacket pocket and blows his nose into it, then looks into the hanky to see what he’s produced. Puts it away again. What are we actually talking about? he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(Salome’s house.) But Amor also runs out of power and collapses back against his chest. When she speaks he can’t hear her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What did you say?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I don’t want to go back to the hostel. I hate it there.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He thinks about it. You don’t have to go back, he says. It was just temporary, while Ma . . . while Ma was sick.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">So I’m not going back?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Not ever? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Never. I promise.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Now she feels sunken and removed, as if she’s in a hot, silent, underground cavern. Fickle is the heart. The afternoon is tapering towards its long yellow end. My mother died this morning. Soon it will be tomorrow.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie tires of her clinging and has to quell an unseemly urge to push her away. He has always worried, based on nothing tangible, about whether Amor is actually his child. The last-born, not planned, she was conceived in the most troubled period of his marriage, the middle bit when he and his wife started keeping separate bedrooms. Not a lot of loving going on, yet that was when Amor arrived. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But wherever she comes from, she’s no doubt part of the Heavenly plan. For sure, she was the instrument of his conversion, when the Lord nearly took her from them and Manie at last opened himself to the Holy Spirit. It was soon after that, in a moment of deep prayer, that he’d understood what he had to do to cleanse himself. He, Herman Albertus Swart, must confess his failings to his wife and ask her forgiveness, and so he had told Rachel everything, including about the gambling and the prostitutes, he had bared and pared himself, but instead of turning clear his marriage had gone dark, instead of forgiving him she’d judged him and found him greatly wanting, instead of following him into the vale of light she’d turned in the other direction, back towards her own people. The ways of the Lord are forever mysterious to us!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He twists around in the chair and takes Amor’s face in his hands, turns it up towards him, looking at her features, searching for some sign that could only come from his body, his cells. Not the first time he’s done it. She stares back at him out of her dark constellations, frightened. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He might be about to say something to her, but is prevented, fortunately, by the arrival of Dominee Simmers. The good minister has been here for much of the day, providing prayer and counsel to an important member of his congregation. In the years of questing and searching since Manie was brushed by God’s fire and turned at last to the truth, Alwyn Simmers has been his guide and his shepherd. The rigors of his Church are the joists and stays that keep me upright. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m afraid I have to go, the minister says. But I’ll come again tomorrow.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He perceives Manie as a complicated blur, for the dominee is losing his sight, his eyes are hidden behind thick, dark lenses, and he needs somebody to lean on wherever he goes. Literally so, Jesus is only a metaphor under these circumstances. Hence the presence of the trainee minister, the one who has mislaid his faith, who is now attempting to angle the dominee so that the conversation lines up correctly.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie at last has a reason to put his daughter to one side, carefully, like a piece of fragile furniture, and forgets her in an instant. I’ll walk you out to your car, he says. As he leads the two men slowly towards the front door, he passes a framed photograph of himself on the sideboard, taken twenty years ago at Scaly City, his reptile park, soon after it opened. Coining it from the first day, and you can see it in the broad grin of the young man in the picture. Manie at twenty-seven. Considered a catch in his time. A lot of fun, always playing the fool, and with good looks too, check out the pic if you don’t believe it. Long, limp forelock, a toothy, insolent grin. Bit of a bad boy. Holding a furious, deadly snake in each hand, black mamba in the left, green mamba in the right, beaming his youth and health and certainty out of the frame. Dark glasses, of course, with big shiny frames, coppery sideburns profuse, same colour as the hair bursting out of his bare chest. Fertile, free-ranging, everyone wanted a piece of him, no wonder Rachel gave it all up on his account. Then changed her mind when he changed too.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Outside, the dominee fumbles Manie in for an embrace, hard-breathing but manly. Take strength in Christ, he says into his ear. A meaningless statement, if you think about it, but Manie says that he will, he will take strength in Christ. He’s been doing it for a long time already. You’ll come back tomorrow? he says anxiously, not sure if Christ alone will suffice, and the minister promises he will. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Then they are driving away from the farmhouse, or rather the apprentice minister is at the wheel, the older man next to him. They don’t speak at all on the bumpy ride to the front gate, though the Adam’s apple of the driver bobs up and down, like a float on a fishing line, as if he has something to say. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Only after they are through the gate and have turned onto the tar road does Alwyn Simmers stir. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Wonderful family, he remarks. And that man will not break.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The driver listens, smiling enviously to himself. Not to break! Is such certainty possible? Not for me. Not tonight. Even to believe he can stay on this road, with his hands so slippery, is too much faith.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The old minister is a large, soft man, with a sideways wave of crinkly brown hair. Much about him has a crumpled look, for his sister Laetitia, who tends to him at home, is not a dab hand with an iron. And the skin on his hands and neck and face, all that’s visible of him, is loose and lined, and you really wouldn’t want to see the rest, under his clothes. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He has a natural heaviness, but he’s especially ponderous this afternoon, because the death of Rachel, a woman whose hand was raised against him from the very first, yea, a stubborn, proud woman who kept her face turned away from the Lord, has brought him close to something he very much wants. Not for himself, no, of course not! For the Church only, and the furtherance of Heaven’s work. I am merely the instrument. But the instrument can sense that the way ahead is clear at last, and he may soon acquire a desirable piece of land. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pick me up at four tomorrow afternoon, he decides. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are we going back to . . . to those people?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, we are returning to the Swart family. My work there is not yet done.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">By the time the sun goes down, especially vividly out here, all the visitors have gone and only the family is left. Oom Ockie is by now listing a little to the right, weighted perhaps by his uneven smile, hitched up only at one end. He and Pa sit in the lounge, watching the news on the TV, which bears bad tidings from all over the country. A limpet mine in Johannesburg, troops in the townships. Every now and then Pa breaks down and sobs for a while, as if he’s moved by the state of South Africa. Ockie just sips and smiles.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the kitchen, Marina supervises the black girl, who has a pile of plates and cups to wash. The way she drags herself around, so heavy and slow, you’d think she’s the one who’s lost a family member. Unforgivable to be lazy on a big day like this, she has to be pushed along like a boulder, it’s exhausting giving orders all the time. Crossly, Marina does a last march through the house, looking for leftovers. In the dining room she encounters Amor, whom she hasn’t had a chance to chastise yet. Where did you run off to? she demands, more angry than she knew, and finds herself pinching her niece on the upper arm, a flash of genuine cruelty in her fingernails.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ow, Amor says, but doesn’t otherwise answer, and Marina stomps on with disgruntled satisfaction up to the second floor. She goes into Rachel’s room and hesitates for a moment before closing the windows and curtains. It seems to her there is a faint tincture, an odour, on the air. Outside, it is night.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It is night, the same night, but later, the stars have moved on. Only a cuticle of moon, casting the faintest metallic glow onto this landscape of rocks and hills, making it look almost liquid, a mercurial sea. The line of the main road is stitched out now and then in slow motion by the headlamps of a car, carrying its cargo of human lives, going from somewhere to somewhere.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The house is dark, except for floodlights fore and aft, note the nautical terms, illuminating the driveway and the lawn, and a single lamp left on inside, in the lounge. In the various rooms downstairs everything is mostly inert, except for the occasional scuttling insect, or is it a rodent, and the tiny expansions and contractions of the furniture. Pitter, patter, creak, crack.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But upstairs, in the bedrooms, there is a flickering going on. Pa’s mattress is a raft, tossing on a current of uneasy dreams. He has taken a sedative prescribed by Dr. Raaff, and it keeps his head just under the surface, looking at images refracted from above. His wife is in many of them, but altered somehow, a bit squiff. A trace in her of another person altogether, someone he doesn’t know. How can this be? he cries to her, You’re dead. That’s an unforgivable thing to say, Manie, she tells him, I’m very hurt. His heart is wrung like an old rag. I’m sorry, I’m sorry.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Through the wall beside him, just an outstretched arm away, Astrid ripples in her sleep. She has recently lost her virginity, to a boy she met at the ice rink, and sex flows through her like a golden wind. She has forgotten the pain, though it’s part of the shimmer around the faces of young men, with their bristly beards, and in this dream around the face of Dean de Wet in particular, whose mouth is a pink colour it doesn’t have in waking life, thrilling her deep inside, down where everything meets.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the guest bedroom, Tannie Marina dozes and starts, dozes and starts. She achieves only the beginning of a dream, in which she’s on a picnic with P. W. Botha at an old fort somewhere, and he’s feeding her strawberries with thick white fingers, before she gets woken by a kick. At home in Menlo Park she doesn’t share a bed with Ockie, who lies twitching beside her like a hit-and-run victim, waiting for medical assistance. What a thought, Marina, sis on you, but you can’t help what you think, it’s only human, and far worse has gone through your mind, oh yes it has. Her husband’s foot touches hers, she pulls her foot away. Terrible to flinch from what you once, briefly, loved, or thought you did, or wanted to think you did. But are shackled to, regardless, for life.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At the other end of the chain, Ockie jerks like a dancing bear. He doesn’t dream, not exactly, unless the shallows he splashes through are a sort of dream, but nothing quite happens, there is just the question of colour changing all the time. A bubble rises from the seabed, becomes a breaking of wind against the flank of his wife, who stiffens and flares her nostrils in protest.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And in her bedroom at the end of the passage, Amor lies sleepless, hour after hour. Not unusual for her, believe me, every night before she drifts off her mind must move outward from where her body is based, on its back in bed, to reach out and touch certain objects in particular places, in a specific order. Only when she’s done that can she relax enough to let go. But tonight it doesn’t work, other images from the day are too powerful, they come jostling in, Miss Starkey’s pressed-together lips, Lukas’s stick hitting the ground, the sore place on her arm where her aunt pinched her, so much rage in her fingers, sending out its little pulse of pain into the universe, notice me, I am here, Amor Swart, 1986. May tomorrow never come.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Who is to say, perhaps all these dreams might merge together, making a single, larger dream, a dream by the whole family, but somebody is missing. At this very instant he’s stepping out of a Buffel in a military camp south of Johannesburg, wearing army browns and carrying a rifle. He used the rifle yesterday morning to shoot and kill a woman in Katlehong, an act he never imagined committing in his life, and his mind has done little since except turn that moment over and over in wonderment and despair.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Swart.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, Corporal?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The chaplain wants to see you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The chaplain?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He’s never spoken to the chaplain. It can only be, he thinks, that the man knows what he did and wants to talk to him about it. His sin has somehow transmitted itself, he has taken a life, he must pay. But I didn’t mean to. But you did.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She was throwing a stone, she bent down to pick it up, a flash of rage passed through him, concomitant with hers. He didn’t think, he hated her, he wiped her away. All in a few seconds, an instant, over and done. Never over, never done.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">So that even after the man has told him, he still believes he’s responsible. My mother is dead, I killed her. I shot and killed her yesterday morning.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">We’ve been trying to get hold of you, the chaplain says. We sent a radio message. We thought you received it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He is in the chaplain’s office, sitting in front of his desk. There is a Christian poster stuck with Prestik to the wall, I am the Way and the Life, but aside from that the room is drab and ordinary, too ordinary to contain the feelings that have been let loose in him.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I was in Katlehong, he says. There was a situation.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, ja, of course. The chaplain is small and fussy, with hair growing out of his ears. He has the rank of colonel, but is wearing only a tracksuit right now, his face blurry with sleep. Having done his painful duty, he’s keen to get back to bed, it’s 0300 hours on the clock.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Here’s a seven-day pass, he tells the conscript. I’m sorry about your mother, but I’m sure she’s at peace.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The young man doesn’t seem to hear him. He is staring out the window, into the dark. We had to bring things under control, he says slowly.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, of course, that’s why you’re here. That’s what the army is for. The chaplain has never struggled in his soul with questions of this nature, the answers have always seemed obvious. He wonders vaguely if this boy is a subversive type. Would you like a longer pass? he says. Ten days?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh, the young man says. No, I don’t think so.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">All right then.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">My mother turned Jewish, you see, or went back to it, rather, and they like to bury their dead quickly. Same day, if possible. But they’ll wait for me to get home and do it tomorrow.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I see.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s all been planned like that. She’s been dying for months. Everybody just wants it over.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">All right then, the chaplain repeats uncomfortably.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The young man gets to his feet at last. My parents should never have married, he says. They were not alike.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He wanders back to his tent through the dark roads of the camp. Under canvas, hundreds of others like him, stacked in rows. My mother is dead. The portals through which I entered the world. No way back, not that there ever was. I shot and killed her yesterday. But I didn’t mean to. But you didn’t do it, you did not kill your mother. Somebody else’s mother you killed. And therefore mine must die.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He is very tired, no sleep for forty hours and no prospect of it now, not till he’s home. Crackle and burn. The fuse is lit. There’s a smell in his nostrils perpetually, of rubber on fire, rising from somewhere inside him. He comes to his tent, where his bed waits for him, but keeps on walking, liking the sound of his boots on the road. Slumber, little soldiers, while the minotaur stamps by. Slouching towards Bethlehem in the Free State.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At the furthest edge of the camp, a soldier is on guard. A troepie like him. What do you want? he says, sounding scared.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I want your gold and your women, Anton says. Speaking Afrikaans for some reason, though he can hear the other guy is English. My father’s tongue, forever foreign to me. No, I’ve changed my mind, I come in peace. Take me to your leader.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You’re not supposed to be here.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I know it. I’ve known it since the day I was born. He hooks his fingers through the mesh and lets his weight hang down. Yellow floodlights send strange shadows across the tar. On the other side of the fence is a lot filled with military vehicles, many of them Buffels like the one he was in when it happened. Yesterday, only yesterday. So much life still to get through.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I have lost my mother, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lost her?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I shot her with my rifle, to protect the country. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You shot your mother?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What’s your name?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Payne.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh, wonderful. He switches to English. We’ve met before. Are you an allegory? Are you real? Do you have a first name?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">My first name? What do you want to know that for?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He holds up his hands. I surrender, Private Payne. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are you all right?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Do I look all right to you? No, I’m not all right. My mother is dead. Thank you for your company, Payne. I’ll see you down the line.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He lurches away in the direction he came from, and the conversation disappears, as most do, into the air, or into the earth, it sinks or it rises and will never come back again. Four hours later, Rifleman Anton Swart, nineteen years old, stands at the side of the road near Alberton in a military pickup zone, hoping for a lift home. He is haggard, he is pale. A handsome young man, brown eyes and brown hair, something in his face that will never be at ease.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He calls the farm from a phone booth in Pretoria. Eight thirty in the morning. Pa answers, sounding dazed. He doesn’t recognise Anton’s voice. Who is this?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s me, your son and heir. Can you send Lexington?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He loiters outside the State Theatre, near the bust of Strijdom, till the car arrives. You come in triumph, he says as he gets in, an old joke on his part, referring to the make of the car, the only one Lexington is allowed to drive, although the family sends him on numerous missions into town every week. Lexington, go to the shop. Go and pick up my curtains. Drop this off at Madam Marina. Lexington, fetch Anton in Pretoria.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m very sorry about Mrs. Rachel.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Thank you, Lexington. He stares out of the window into the white throngs on the pavement. A city of moustaches and uniforms, Boer statues and big cement plazas. After a while, he asks, Is your mother alive?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, yes, she is in Soweto. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And your father?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He’s working on a mine in Cullinan.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Unknowable lives. Lexington himself is a hieroglyph, in his chauffeur’s cap and jacket. He has to wear them, Pa says, so that the police can see he’s not a skelm, he’s my driver. And for the same reason Anton must ride in the back seat, so that the divisions are obvious.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Why are you driving this way, Lexington?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because there is trouble by the township. Your father told me I must go by the long road.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m telling you not to.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lexington hesitates between two authorities.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Look, he says, hefting it into view, I have my rifle. He lays it across his lap. His uniformed lap. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What he doesn’t say is, My rifle has no bullets. Without bullets, my rifle is nothing, a shell. It is there only to send out the bullets, like the one I put into her without thinking yesterday, the instant at which she began to fall a fracture line through my life.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You want I must go back?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, Lexington, please.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Nothing will happen. And he is so very tired, he cannot face the long way around. No more long roads for me. Even the direct road wearies him, the familiarity of it, yellow grass between brown rocks. How I hate it, this harsh, ugly country. I can’t wait to leave.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">By the time they get to the Atteridgeville turn-off, he has finally started to drift off, first taste of sleep in two days. The small crowd at the side of the road seems like an image from a dream. Are they waiting for a bus? No, they are running, they are shouting, something is happening somewhere, yet all of it is weightless. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What isn’t weightless is the stone that suddenly comes at him, hurled from the hand of a man who leans out of the scene, bloodshot eyes fixed only on me. The world becomes real in an instant. The side window shatters, the impact cancels him out very briefly, then he wakes into the streaming ribbon of road, Lexington speeding away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Shame, Master Anton, hayi.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(Never called me master before.) Just drive, Lexington, drive.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">A wetness running into his eyes, which turns red when he touches it. Only now putting the pieces together, to make sense of what just happened. And only now feeling it, the raw bloom of pain from one corner of things.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Jesus H. Christ.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You want we must go to the doctor?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The doctor? He starts to laugh, the sound quickly becoming convulsive. Doesn’t know what he’s laughing at, there’s nothing funny in any of it, maybe that’s the joke. He often cries when he laughs, hilarity and weeping almost one thing. Dries his eyes and says, No, thank you, Lexington, please take me home.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">His father is in some sort of conclave with his aunt and uncle in the lounge. They jump up when he comes in, because of the blood, which he’s forgotten about, though it continues to run down his face and drip onto his uniform, as well as the rifle, the useless, empty rifle.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s nothing, he says, a stone, I’m not badly hurt.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’ll call Dr. Raaff, says Tannie Marina. You need stitches.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Please don’t make a fuss.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Damn it, I told him to take the long road around, Pa says. Why didn’t he listen?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I told him not to.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Why? Why must you always disobey my orders?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I thought it would be safe, Anton says, laughing again. But even here the restless natives are fighting their oppressors.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Man, please don’t talk rubbish, Ockie says, which makes his nephew laugh harder.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No mention of what has brought him here, just confusion and commotion, out of which Dr. Raaff does eventually appear, presumably by the long way around. Marina is right, Anton needs stitches, and these are administered in the kitchen, out of sight of the squeamish. And there are little splinters of glass from the broken window that have to be picked out with tweezers.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Dr. Raaff wields his tweezers with more-than-usual dexterity, he and the instrument are suited. His movements are precise and angular, his clothes scrupulously clean. His fastidiousness is pleasing to his patients, but if they only knew the daydreams of Dr. Wally Raaff, few would submit to being examined by him.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He says, not without relish, Two inches down and that could have been your eye.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton says, We switched to the metric system in 1971.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Dr. Raaff glares coldly at him, mouth thin and tight, like one of his sutures. He’s had more than enough of the Swarts lately and wouldn’t mind dissolving this particular young man in a bath of sulphuric acid. But in public one must observe the proprieties, unfortunately.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Only after the good doctor’s car disappears down the drive does quietness fall. By now it’s late morning and the spring day is unseasonably hot, a buzzing of insects envelops the house.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I baked some milk tart, Tannie Marina says to her nephew. Don’t you want some? She pinches the skin at his waist and adds coquettishly, You’re very thin.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Later.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">We have to go to that Jewish funeral place now, to sort out some things. Do you want to come along?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I must sleep, Anton says. I have to sleep.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He has to sleep. Enclosed in a sort of white tunnel, voices reaching him only faintly from outside, he climbs the stairs to his room. Undresses slowly, throwing each item of clothing onto a chair, like a piece of himself. He showers, some of the last two days washing off, but can hardly stay upright. Climbs into bed still damp and is almost immediately asleep, switched off like a lamp.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Only now, too late, when everyone else is awake, does he contribute his dream to the mix. Out of time, lost, its tendrils rise from his head, sketching in smoke. He is lying in a bed not unlike his own, in a long room filled with many identical beds, and from a doorway on the far side his mother emerges. She advances towards him slowly, threading her way between the beds, and when she arrives she bends down to plant a cool kiss upon his forehead. Thus in dreams do the dead return to you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The spirit of Rachel Swart, née Cohn, lingers around the house in a state of confusion. She becomes almost visible at certain moments, when the light or the mood is right, but only to those who are willing to see, and then only obliquely, at the edges of things. She peered at Amor out of the mirror not long ago, though what she was really gazing at was the scene of her final exit, a fact she finds hard to take in. It’s not uncommon, the dead are frequently unable to accept their condition, they resemble the living in that respect, but they have forgotten what they’re nostalgic for, much is lost in the crossing over, and when they see you they do not know you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Tojo the Alsatian observes her coming and going without difficulty, because he hasn’t learned that it isn’t possible.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She lifts the kitchen curtain to sneak a glance at Salome, just for a second, a peripheral shimmer.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid thinks she hears her calling from her room down the passage, needing help again, always at the worst possible moment, but of course it’s just a loose window hinge in the wind.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She rattles the small change in her purse, the way she used to, but when Manie calls out from the bath she doesn’t answer.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Presses her cold lips to Anton’s forehead while he sleeps.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Eventually she tires of the house and becomes noticeable in the streets of Pretoria, in places she liked to visit. She paddles in the pond at Magnolia Dell, drinks tea at a cafe in Barclay Square. Looks through the fence of the Austin Roberts Bird Sanctuary at a sad blue crane, pecking something shiny on the ground. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You get the idea. She touches down where her spirit was once thick, but she’s no longer solid, a watercolour woman. In the crowd she is just another face, not much evident. She crosses large distances as if going from room to room, looking for something she’s lost. In these appearances she wears different items of clothing from her wardrobe, an evening gown, a flimsy summer dress, even a shawl she bought on appro once from Truworths and took back the next day. She looks real, which is to say, ordinary. How would you know she is a ghost? Many of the living are vague and adrift too, it’s not a failing unique to the departed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Eventually she fetches up somewhere she certainly hasn’t been before, except there she already is, lying naked on a flanged metal table, the spitting image of herself, but grey and cold, like somebody dead. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She is somebody dead. She looks at herself on the table and begins to understand.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">An elderly female volunteer has been working on her for a couple of hours already. There’s a limit to what can be done, given the prohibition on chemicals, but cleaning the body is most important. Then the pouring of the water, to purify the flesh, and the drying that follows. It is required, both the ritual and the cleanliness. And there is great respect and tenderness in doing it, which brings peace to this older woman, whose name, according to the tag she wears on her lapel, is Sara. One day soon, somebody will do this for me.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Plain and clean and simple, that’s how she approaches the job. The human form, reduced to what it is. She has dressed the body in the tachrichim and wrapped the avnet around it, but the knot that she’s tied is just slightly wrong. It’s meant to be in the shape of Shin, denoting one of the names of God, but her fingers are especially arthritic today.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Let it go, or else sigh and redo it. Much of life consists of sighing and redoing, particularly with Sara. The material world resists. Patience is a form of meditation. She has been a volunteer with the Chevrah Kadisha, preparing the dead for burial, since her own husband died twenty-two years ago. To serve is to worship. Also, it passes the time. Also, you meet new people.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She decides to let it go. So God’s name is a little bit wrong, does it matter? Nobody will see, everything is hidden in the aron. And symbolic anyway. How terrible is it? She has more important worries, like working on the face. She doesn’t like to use make-up on them, more deceitful in death than in life, but this one’s condition is quite bad. She was sick for a long time, poor thing, sores on her arms, not much hair left, gums blackened, very gaunt. Seems disrespectful not to improve her, you can see in the instamatic print you asked for that she was beautiful once. All human life is like grass upon the earth.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In her other, public life, Sara is not above a little vanity, she wears the occasional piece of jewellery and likes to put some colour on her cheeks. Long ago, before she was old, she too exerted an attractive force. Men noticed me, yes, they did. Sometimes a nostalgic mood comes over her and she takes out her own make-up box, to repair a bit of damage. There, my lovely, yes. A bit of rouge, a dab of powder. Doesn’t want to do much more, truth matters and in her case truth was suffering. Over at last. A blessing. Goodbye, my dear. Rest easy now.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lastly she brushes the thin hair on the woman’s scalp. Gently and rhythmically, a part of the ritual she usually enjoys, but today a few strands come loose. Soft, almost substanceless, like something not there. She collects them in her hand, to be put into the casket later. All of it matters, every drop, every strand.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the end the severe expression is gentled, becoming kinder, more accepting. Even Rachel’s ghost is drawn by her own resemblance, she stands next to the body on the table, gazing wonderingly at the face it wears, trying to place it. She takes care not to get in the way, though she’s picked up as a weak place in Sara’s vision, swimming with spots. Maybe the onset of a migraine. She is prone to these, when the flesh she kneads is especially unwilling. See what you’ve done, she tells the woman on the table, but silently, inside. You’ve put me off my work, looking for the truth. The truth, Rachel answers, just as silently, is that who she is? I thought I knew her from somewhere.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, definitely a migraine, Sara retreats, pulling off her rubber gloves, fumbling for her suppositories. They sometimes help if you can catch it in time. No need to dwell on the image of the old woman with her knickers around her ankles and her finger up her fundament, at such moments she feels very far from God.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the room next door, just two bricks away, the shomer waits on a hard chair, Book of Psalms in hand. A tall, bony man of asexual appearance, he wears a yarmulke and prayer shawl over ill-fitting clothes of a conservative cut. His duties begin shortly, but for the moment he’s in that pleasing period of preparation, trying to empty out his mind, which is busier than most. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And in the room on the far side of him, the dead woman’s family is in consultation with Rabbi Katz, who’ll be conducting the levaya ceremony tomorrow. He instructed Rachel spiritually on her return to her own people, so it’s only fitting. But this is the first time he’s actually meeting the goy husband and sister, although Rachel talked about them a lot, and he has to say, excuse the lack of tolerance, but nothing has prepared him for how obtuse they turn out to be. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Starts out well enough. Manie is warmly greeted by Rachel’s older sister Ruth, who’s flown up from Durban this morning. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hello, Manie, she says. You remember Clint.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He does, unfortunately. Clint is a big, meaty fellow, who used to play rugby for Western Province and now owns a steakhouse in Umhlanga Rocks. Howzit, Mannie, he says, shaking hands with unnecessary force. You look all right.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie, his wife corrects him, with the weary tone of one who does a lot of correcting. It’s good to see you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, you too.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And it’s not untrue. Of all Rachel’s family Ruth is the easiest to deal with, because she also married out of the faith and was exiled for a while. Though she seems to be back in the fold these days.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But Rachel’s middle sister Marcia and her husband Ben are also there and things with them are much more strained. Antagonism on both sides, the sense of some old wound, the details forgotten but the injury not. Nor does it help that Ockie said Congratulations instead of Condolences when he bumped into them outside, and that since then Manie has kept blaming them for his wife returning to her religion.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Look, the rabbi has told them twice already just in the past half-hour, it’s really not the Levis’ fault. This is what she wanted. It’s what Rachel requested. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What she was brainwashed into, you mean, Manie says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Calm down, the shiksa sister tells him. Remember what Dr. Raaff said.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I didn’t brainwash anybody, Rabbi Katz says. She came to me, of her own free will.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because of these people, Manie insists, pointing at Marcia and Ben, who shift uncomfortably on their chairs. First time they’ve been in the same room in years. They’re the ones who arranged this meeting, supposedly to defuse tensions before the interment tomorrow, but see how that’s worked out.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No need for that kind of talk, buddy, says Ben, without looking at Manie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Honestly, Marcia says, what are we doing here? I thought we were all making an effort, or am I wrong?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The Levis are part of our congregation, Rabbi Katz throws in. It’s natural they’d approach me.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hand on heart, Marcia says, I can tell you that all of it was Rachel. She came to me out of the blue. I hadn’t spoken to her for ten years— </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because of you, buddy. So be nice.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Do you know, Marcia says, we’ve taken this week of mourning on ourselves. It’s supposed to be in her own house, Rachel’s house, that the mirrors are covered and the candles lit—</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">There is plenty of mourning in our house, Manie tells her. But we do it in our own style, not like heathens. Then he subsides, like a tent without a supporting pole. He knows that they’re right, Rachel found her way to them, they didn’t come looking for her. And Marina lectured him the whole drive here about how important it is not to get worked up when he sees the Levis, and he agreed with her. He still does. They’re not to blame. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The shiny little rabbi isn’t responsible either, but Manie would like to do something to him anyway. He’s seething over the injustice of all of it, but this morning especially over the plain pine box these people are going to put his wife into, she who deserves so much more, after he’s paid for years into a funeral policy she turns out not to need.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Please understand, Marina says to nobody particular, in her most soothing voice. This is difficult for my brother.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, I’m sure it is, Marcia says. It’s been hard for us too, believe it or not. Do you think we like being here?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Marcia, her husband says warningly. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">All I want, Manie whispers, is for her to lie next to me in the family cemetery. Is there any way we can arrange something? If I make a donation . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The rabbi sits up straight. I’m afraid not. If she wants a Jewish funeral, then it’s not possible. You can’t buy our traditions, Mr. Swart.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She wasn’t really Jewish, Manie says. Not in her heart.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ah, you know that, do you?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, I do know, actually. My wife found many ways to torture me, it was a talent of hers.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Maybe you should have treated her better and she wouldn’t have turned against you, Marcia says, taking her purse out of her handbag for no particular reason and then putting it away again.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Marcia, Ben says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, really. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">We are not getting anywhere, the rabbi says, feeling close to tears. His sense of fairness has not been taxed this far since he first engaged morally with the question of Israel.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie, let’s go, his sister says. You are upsetting yourself for nothing.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, come on, <em class="italic">vámonos</em>. By now it’s clear to all of them that the meeting is a waste of time. Rachel will be buried with her own people and Manie one day with his. Better for the Swart side to go back to the farm and get ready for tomorrow.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And as they drive away, Rachel’s body is already being lifted into its final container and the lid screwed down. For ever. The shomer is in attendance and when the other assistants have gone he continues to sit in his lonely chair against the wall, chanting the tehillim. For the dead must have company all the way to the end. The psalms stand in for the whole Jewish people, words are magical in that way, but he is the sole human representative and takes his job seriously, like any good ambassador.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Sometimes he can detect the presence of the departed, as a rustling and pressing against the edges of his senses. Then he tries to chant the words directly to them, from his heart to theirs. But today, although he strains his mind outwards, he can pick up no other signal. The room feels empty to him. He recites regardless, and who is to say where the words travel to?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">See the words fly, through the door of the room, down the passage, out the window. Watch them rise over the city and wing their way in a little psalm-shaped flock to the farm, in search of the woman to whom they are chanted. They circle the koppie and dive down to the lawn, they enter the house through the back door and pass on stilted legs through the kitchen, like a change in the light. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton glances up from where he sits at the table. What was that? he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hmmm? Salome is at her usual station, in front of the sink, and her reflection looks back at him in the window glass. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Nothing. I thought . . . He’s still stupid with sleep, and is drinking a mug of strong coffee and eating a slice of Tannie Marina’s milk tart. Soon the sugar will kick in, fire him up. He touches at the stitches on his forehead, bothered by their foreignness, the pulse of pain they emit.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The silence between the two of them is comfortable, unfraught. She has seen him grow up, from a tottering infant to a golden boy to this, whatever he is now, tending to him every step of the way. When he was little he used to call her Mama and tried to suck on her nipple, a common South African confusion. No secrets between them. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">A sudden spasm of anger comes over him, and he pushes the plate violently away, the remains of the sickly-sweet milk tart on it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">(Yesterday I killed a woman just like you.) When I’m done with the army I’m leaving this country.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m going to wipe this place off the bottom of my feet and never come back.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja? The clink and clash of cutlery. Where will you go?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh, he says, less sure about this part of his plans. Everywhere. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m going to study English literature. Not here, overseas somewhere. After that, my main ambition is to write a novel. I might go into law later, or maybe just make a lot of money, but first I want to travel the world. You don’t want to see the world, Salome?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Me? How will I do that? She sighs and starts to dry dishes with a big cloth. Is it true, she asks, that I am getting my house?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Huh?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lukas saw Amor on the koppie yesterday. And she told him your father will give me my house.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I don’t know anything about that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Okay, she says. Apparently unperturbed, though she has thought of nothing else since the words were spoken. To have her own house, to hold those papers in her hand!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Better ask my father, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Okay.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He watches her inscrutable back, which bore his infant self innumerable times, as it moves to and fro along the kitchen counter, carrying the stacked plates to the cupboard. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, he says, absently. Better ask him.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The question about the house has travelled from his mother to his sister to Lukas to Salome and has now been planted in him, a tiny dark seed just starting to sprout. It comes back to him a couple of hours later, in another room on the far side of the city, at an almost arbitrary moment, doing up his shirt. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You know what my little sister said to Salome?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Who’s Salome?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The woman who . . . Our maid.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This conversation happens in a bedroom on the upper floor of a large house in a leafy suburb. He’s speaking to a bosomy blonde girl, still in her last year of high school, with whom he’s just animalistically and explosively rutted. Witness the tangled bedclothes, the state of half-undress, the pleasing afterglow in the groin.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What did your sister say to her?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That my father promised to give her a house.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Did he?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Promise.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I don’t know, Anton says, standing in front of the dressing-table mirror and straightening any giveaways, loose zips and untucked shirts, all clues in the suspicious eyes of Desirée’s mother, due back from the hairdresser any minute. He leans in to examine his stitches, impressed by the wound all over again. Now I look like a soldier.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Don’t let him give a house to the maid, Desirée says, indignant. She’ll only break it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I think it’s broken already. But that’s not the point.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">From outside, the unmistakable sound of the old lady’s Jaguar purring into the drive and pulling up below in a little spray of gravel. They’re on the second floor, fortunately, because the curtains are open and she might otherwise be able to look in on her daughter writhing back into her blouse while her boyfriend does up his flies. Not much to mistake in that tableau.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hurry, she’s here.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You go and talk to her! Say I’m in the bathroom.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Okay. He jerks the bedcover straight, casting a backward look at her, but she’s just a blonde blur, closing the bathroom door. No match for the image he’s carried around to lonely places these past months. Desirée’s brother Leon is a friend of Anton’s from high school and she remained in the background for quite a few years as a mere and irritating younger sister before certain glandular changes caused an alteration in perception. The need to fuck like bonobos is uppermost these days and he certainly came here today for no noble reason. Only one thing on my mind since hearing about Ma, funny that, just how it works, Eros fighting Thanatos, except you don’t think about sex, you suffer it. A scratchy, hungry thing going on in the basement. Torment of the damned, the fire that never goes out. But still, despite bodily appetites, he feels that he’s chasing some emotion he can’t quite name. Might even be love, though that would surprise him. She’s given him comfort today, for sure. Yes, to lie a long time among her plump undulations, that would be peaceful. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Instead he pads, alarmed and half tumescent, through the well-upholstered passages of the upper floor, glimpsing other bedrooms and bathrooms on either side. Then a study, edge of a desk showing, a Persian rug, a standing lamp. Why does furniture always look innocent, no matter what happens on it? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He’s not supposed to be up here, too personal in every way. He lost his virginity to Desirée, she will always hold a special charge for him, but she’s not the only thing that excites him on his visits. Desirée’s father is an important cabinet minister, a physically as well as morally repugnant person with the blood of innocents on his hands, and Anton would like to hate him unequivocally but finds himself secretly stirred by the outward trappings of power. The mean-looking guards in a booth at the entrance, the busts and oil paintings of colonial criminals from a highly selective history, the casual mention of well-known, fear-inducing names, all of it is terrible but thrilling, and his most memorable thunderclap of an orgasm took place in a chair where the buttocks of the Minister of Justice had only recently rested.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The wife of this urbane and awful man, Desirée’s mother, roils him in a completely different way. Like an older, Aryan doll, pretty but hard, all her surfaces washed and powdered and lacquered and fixed, so that you can’t help longing to pierce the brittle veneer. He shoots down the stairs and into the kitchen just ahead of her, and is leaning against the counter when she comes in through the back door, high heels striking sparks on the tiles.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What a surprise! I thought it was your cute little car outside. She lets him kiss her coolly on one cheek. But what happened to your head?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The wounds of war. Just a stone, not serious.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">So you’re on sick leave?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No. My mother died yesterday. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Oh, Anton! It finally happened . . . I’m so sorry. She allows the enamel to crack a little, enough to simulate a genuine emotion, hairdo vibrating with the strain. At least her suffering is over.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, at least there’s that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She puts a hand up to his cheek and he almost, actually, weeps. Where does it come from, this little chink of weakness? Luckily, his lapse is covered by the return of Desirée, freshly sheathed, sprayed with perfume, lipstick reapplied. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Maman! / <em class="italic">Mein schatz!</em> Kiss-kiss! Since a recent European trip the two of them affect foreign modes of address. They are the same kind of creature, and Anton recalls a night out in Johannesburg last year, the two of them feeding spoons of ice cream to each other, fluttering and cooing like pigeons on a ledge. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">For her part, Maman quite likes Anton this evening, or feels sorry for him, at least. She wouldn’t mind massaging his shoulders, but settles instead for chivvying him along. Would you like a Valium, for your nerves? I have some in my cupboard. And I was just going to open a bottle of wine. I know it’s a sad day for you, so I’m sure you’d rather not . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Actually, he says, I’d love a glass. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He should be at the farm. He didn’t tell anyone where he was going and he took the Triumph without permission and he knows his father will be very angry and these are all good reasons not to hurry home just yet, but to stay and pop a Valium and have a glass, or maybe two.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And at the farm, at this moment, a braai is just beginning. On the way back from the meeting with those people this morning, Pa felt the need to slaughter some living thing. Now a table has been set up at the bottom of the lawn, while the sun sinks bloodily over the veld, not unlike the chunks of meat marinating in bowls. At the fire itself, Ockie tends to his coals. This is his contribution! Chops on a grid, beer in hand, then a man can be at peace. Salads are a woman’s job and if you listen you’ll hear Marina’s voice giving orders in the kitchen, Wash this, Slice that. Who put her in charge of the world?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Here, too, somebody has opened a bottle of red and almost all the adults are partaking. A curious scene, this low-key festivity just a day after Ma has died, but on the other hand people have to eat, life goes on. They’ll be drinking and making bawdy jokes soon after you go too.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s not only family in attendance. There are a couple of hangers-on, among them the Reverend Simmers and his helper. The dominee is in a relaxed and chatty mood, beaming vaguely and throwing out little <em class="italic">bon mots</em> in all directions. Everyone likes the personal touch. Trouble is, almost nobody likes Alwyn Simmers, aside from Pa and Tannie Marina. He sits flanked by the two of them as the braai gets going, eyes masked behind those bulletproof glasses, under the kapok tree in the dusk, the sizzle and smell of meat on the air.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">On the other side of the table, Amor watches and listens, but says little herself. She still has a bad head, two days down the line, as if she’s wearing a dark hat of some kind, too tight for her skull. Next to her, Astrid is pushing back her cuticles and jiggling one sandalled foot.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">From a little way off, Pa muses on them, his two daughters. But where is the other child? The first one, the boy, can actually not remember his name for a second. They should all be here, his offspring, lined up in a row, birds on a wire. All their names starting with A, what were he and Rachel thinking? We just liked the sound of it, his wife always told people, though the sound of it is what most embarrasses him now. If the first one’s name had been different . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where is Anton? he demands, suddenly irked.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid sees a chance to make trouble. He sneaked out in the Triumph. I saw him.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Going where?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She shrugs suggestively, but speak of the devil, here are the wan headlamps now, coming over the ridge. Though it must be later in the evening, because everybody has food on their plates, clearly visible as the lights float slowly down towards the front of the house and fix the gathering for a moment in their beam. They go out, the engine cuts, car door opens and closes, and Anton walks in a studied, loose-jointed way over the lawn towards them. His knees don’t quite straighten, he wears a bleary grin.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The same condition afflicts some of the gathering. Get yourself some meat, Ockie calls to him, too loudly. Come and join the other sinners! And Tannie Marina pats the chair next to her. Here! She can see that her crazy nephew, the mistake, has been making some mistakes of his own lately and might be in need of a guiding hand tonight. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie’s stare hasn’t wavered since Anton came into view. He nods grimly, recognising his earlier, fallen self. Nice. Ja. Very nice. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What now? He drops the car keys on the table.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Your mother died yesterday, but you have time for wine and loose women. Nice.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Loose women? Ockie says hopefully, casting around, amazed. Dominee Simmers mutters something prayerful and Anton slides into a seat, quaking silently with laughter.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ja, mock. Sneer at me. Every sin is written in the ledger and on the last day—</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Your sins too, dear Father. The women and the wine.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Those days are past. And I have emptied my heart, I have asked for forgiveness, and I have moved on. But look at you!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">On the other side of the table, Dominee Simmers gives an imperceptible sigh. He’d been conversing with Manie just before the damned son came back, and the talk was going well. In just a little moment he was going to nudge the topic around to the important question, he could feel that the mood was right, but now an off note has entered in. Something about that boy, can never remember his name, Andre, Albert, something about him is otherwise.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Your father is upset today, he offers helpfully. Because of the Jewish funeral. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You should have seen the coffin, really cheap-looking, Tannie Marina says. And with wooden handles!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">After he’s been paying for a policy, Ockie says excitedly. For twenty years already!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What I want, Manie moans, the only thing I want, is to lie next to my wife for eternity. Is that so much to ask?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Instead she’ll lie in the Jewish cemetery, Marina says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It is very unfair, the dominee observes. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Why is it unfair?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What your father is saying, he would like your beloved mother to be buried here on the farm. With the rest of the family, next to him. Where she belongs.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where her home is, Pa adds. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">By a real minister.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Meaning you, Anton says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">A silence opens, pierced by the hishing sound of fat dropping into the fire.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That is what your father would like . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But it’s not what she wanted. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The dead don’t want anything! Pa says, or rather cries, for he loses his decorum briefly. A silence falls as the talking stops, making the sound of chewing uncomfortably loud. There’s a feeling of mild shame upon the gathering, with no obvious focus, and it takes a while for conversation to resume.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie offers no further contribution to the discussion. He sits slumped, apparently without conviction, though it should be remembered that he went down to the barn this afternoon and slaughtered the lamb that they are eating now. Yes, he cut its throat, a small flowering of violence in the midst of his helplessness, oh it felt good. So people will pity themselves, soaked in sadness over what they’ve lost, with no awareness of other losses close to hand that they have brought about. The grief of mother sheep, what is that? Yet it marks the air like human grief, it can’t be washed away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor puts down her fork.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are you not going to eat that meat? Astrid wants to know.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She shakes her head, feeling she might kotch. For the past two days she’s been feeling scratchy and nauseous, on the edge of some undefined rebellion. She keeps remembering something she saw at her father’s reptile park recently. Feeding time at the crocodile enclosure, and she’s tried to erase the image, but can’t, of a kindly old uncle in a safari suit, throwing handfuls of white mice to the primitive drifting shapes in the water. Snippety snap. Tails hanging out of a grinning mouth like strands of dental floss. What are we, that we have to eat other bodies to keep going? With disgust, she watches Astrid reach over to her plate, stuffing bits of flesh and fat into her working, glistening mouth. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That’s Ma’s bracelet, she says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, it isn’t. It’s mine.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Ma wore it all the time. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are you calling me a liar?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton puts his plate down and wipes his fingers carefully on a paper napkin. By the way, he says, I hear you’re giving Salome the Lombard place.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What? Pa says, though it rings the faintest bell.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hah! Tannie Marina snorts. That’ll be the day.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton turns to look at Amor, who shifts on her chair. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pa said . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I said what?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You said you would give her the house. You promised.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Her father is stunned at this news. When did I say that?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That girl isn’t getting a house, Tannie Marina says. No, no, no. I’m sorry. You can forget that story right now. She busies herself with tidying away, although not everyone has finished eating yet, the sound of clashing cutlery like the gnashing of teeth. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pa tries to explain. I’m already paying for her son’s education . . . Must I do everything for her?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor falters in confusion, while her brother smiles and smiles. He leans abruptly towards Alwyn Simmers. Could we talk honestly for a moment?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The minister opens his palms. Of course, Alan, he says. Please go ahead.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">My mother was terrified of dying and couldn’t accept it was happening. But even so, she was very clear about what she wanted. It wasn’t much. Just a few things. One of them was to go back to her religion and be buried with her own family. She specifically said that.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Honesty is very important, the minister says, his voice hoarse.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Pa becomes suddenly very hot. What is wrong with you? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I ask myself that all the time.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Don’t you ever worry that you might burn in hell one day?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This is the worst possibility he can come up with, but Anton reacts, as he often does, with merriment. I’m already there, he says, wiping away tears of hilarity. Can’t you smell the braai?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I’m her husband! I know better than you. I know what my wife believed. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Really? I hardly know what I believe myself most of the time. All I’m saying, not looking for a fight, just trying to keep it simple. You should do what she wanted. All of it. Which includes giving Salome the house, if that’s what you promised.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I never did, Pa says. I never promised anything! </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor blinks at him, genuinely startled. But you did, she tells him. I heard you. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What is wrong with all of you? Pa shouts, then gets up, for some reason with difficulty, and walks off on stiff legs into the garden, bellowing incoherently.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Tannie Marina twists her necklace till her voice sounds strangled. He’s crying, she says. Are you happy now?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Happy? Anton says, considering the word. No, I wouldn’t say that. But we all might be closer to it if I say goodnight.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">When he goes, he leaves behind him an abruptly disordered company, people turned at angles to each other amid small sputterings of argument. Often what remains in his wake of late. Ascends to his room, a space cluttered with books and papers, walls festooned with quotes and notes to self. From there, via the window, onto a ledge and thence by means of a tricky manoeuvre onto the roof. The spot he likes to sit is on the very top, a warmish wind moving over him, looking out on the dark land, pricked here and there by lights. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Under a loose tile he’s stowed a plastic bag, from which he now retrieves a roach and a lighter. Fires it up and puffs on it, savouring even before he stubs it out the sensation of his mind relaxing, expanding. Ah, yes. Thank God. I am almost somebody else.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton the firstborn, the only son. He is anointed, to what he doesn’t know, but the future is his. What is it you want? To travel, to learn, to write poems and lead nations, he wants to grab hold of everything, all of it is possible, he wants to eat the world. But a tiny sourness at the back of his throat seems always to have been there, though his life is pure and mild as milk. Wherefrom this curdling? There is a lie at the heart of everything and I have just discovered it in myself. Spit it out. What is wrong with you, man? Nothing is wrong with me. Everything is wrong with me.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Down there around the fire, he can still see figures gesticulating and talking. The last ripples of the commotion he set off, not yet subsided. How you flounder, how you flail, when you try to keep your footing. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In the aftermath of the family fallout, Alwyn Simmers lost his glasses as he struggled to his feet, upheaval all around him, and in his panic now he hears them snap under his shoe, like a breaking bone. He’s blind as an earthworm without those lenses, the fabric of things a misty blur. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Siebritz, he cries. Siebritz!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He is calling for his assistant, whom he otherwise detests, but Siebritz will not reply. Upset by the scene that played out at the braai, which reminds him of his life, for in crisis as in harmony everything is connected, at this moment he is halfway back to town in his car. He is done with that family, he is done with the Church and, most especially, he is done with the dominee. No more!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Siebritz! Siebritz!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Thou art forsaken in the hour of thy need, Alwyn, where is thy succour now? It is only the just man who is tested, remember! Help will come if you wait. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">If he could only make her out, there is one figure sitting very still close by. Amor. She hasn’t moved from her place at the table, though everybody else has left. Hasn’t twitched a limb or a brow, in fact, for the past couple of minutes, so sunken is she in thought, or something else.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She is contemplating her brother, Anton, who is regarding her from the rooftop in return. But her reflections are internal. Amazement, in a way. That he could speak like that. Could say what he did. It must be wonderful to be a man! She has a peculiar longing to take him by the hand. Not to lead him anywhere, just to hold on. Or maybe to be led.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She’s used to being treated as a blur, a smudge at the edge of everybody’s vision. Too young, too silly, to be taken seriously. And strange too, a strange child. Unusual and maybe tragic, easy to overlook. But tonight her brother, from his high place, seemed to notice me. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Nearby, Alwyn Simmers has at last been rescued by Tannie Marina, offering her fleshy forearm and another plate of home-made potato salad. No, thank you, where is my driver? He seems to have disappeared. The dominee just wants to go home now, flatulent and disappointed, to the little house he shares with his sister. He wants it so ardently that he even stamps one foot on the grass.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It’s soon established that Siebritz has departed. Lexington can take you, Marina says, clapping her hands, so that her bracelets clash noisily. Lexington! Lexington!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lexington comes hurrying from the back of the house, putting on his cap. Ja, Mrs. Marina? Take the minister back to his house. The dominee leaves in triumph and soon they are bowling down the highway towards the glimmering yellow lights of Pretoria, which only the driver can see.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Tell me, the minister asks him, how long have you been working for those people?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Twelve years, sir.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What do you think about them, that family?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Lexington hesitates, smiling broadly out of nervousness, to no effect. They are good to me, sir.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">They are good to you, yes, yes. But what do you think about them?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, I am not thinking about them, sir. I am only doing, not thinking.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The statement is untrue, but Lexington cannot answer truthfully. He senses that the minister wants something, but to give him what he wants might endanger his position. It is not always possible to please two white people simultaneously.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Well, I think things about them, the dominee answers. I won’t say what, but I think things. About that son especially, whatever his name is. Adam.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, sir, Lexington says, keen to be agreeable.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Something is wrong with him. You mark my words. He’s a wild donkey of a man. His hand is against everyone and everyone’s hand against him!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Dominee Simmers is vexed this evening, he has a crimp in his soul, which always brings out the biblical in him. The Lord’s creation is amplified when you use heightened language to describe it. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This country! he exclaims. He’s not sure why the country is to blame, but he repeats it anyway. This country!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, sir, Lexington answers, and for a moment the two of them are in genuine accord, South Africa troubles them both, though for different reasons. Alwyn Simmers feels emotionally joined to his black compatriot, it seems to him that they are equals in God’s eyes, although they should always sit on separate seats in the car. God decreed it so, just as He decreed that Rachel should die at the hour she died and that her house should be filled with those who mourn her, it is His wish too that in other rooms the sons and daughters of Ham should be toiling on behalf of their masters and mistresses, hewing wood, drawing water, and generally making life liveable for those who bear the heavy yoke of leadership. A burden that some might prefer to decline, Let this cup pass from me, but if the cup is yours, you must drink from it, no arguing with God, no matter how bitter the dregs.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Laetitia keeps a spare set of spectacles at home for her brother, in case of emergencies like these, and by the next morning, his remaining sight restored to him, stirring his first cup of coffee, Alwyn Simmers feels altogether in a better humour. The more he muses on the events of the previous night, the sunnier his prospects seem. The disarray has worked to his advantage, perhaps the Lord wanted it this way, because Manie is now further estranged from his ungrateful children and might be more inclined to show his generosity elsewhere. But it’s important to make a move soon, before the situation changes. Today, if possible! Except Manie’s wife is to be buried today. Come to think of it, what is the time, it could even be happening right now, as we speak.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, no denying it’s happening. The little room is as bare and simple as her coffin and filled with people. Rachel was a sociable person, she had a lot of friends, but the benches are mostly packed with the Jewish side of the family. Like Afrikaners in that way, blood is the thickest glue of all. For years she didn’t see or speak to most of them, so they were invisible. But here they are today, throngs of faces you haven’t seen in years, a few still with names attached, aunts and uncles and cousins, with their offspring and familiars. Rachel’s mother, your arch-enemy, turns sharply away when she sees you, no quarter given, even now.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Manie hunches his shoulders against them all. Too much has happened to pretend it doesn’t matter. He prayed long and hard last night and he believes the Lord wants him to be here, to show grace and set a Christian example. Faith means you have to wrestle with yourself, can’t just hate them and be done. But it’s hard for him, much harder than he imagined, to be sitting among these people, who have taken her away from me, with their strange customs. Why must they tear their clothes and make me wear a black ribbon over my heart and a skullcap on my head? Why do they keep wishing me a long life? He doesn’t want life to be long, not today, he wants it shorter, he’s had enough of it. In particular, he would happily give up the next few hours from his allotted time, take them, keep them, I don’t want them.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">His own tribe is a much smaller group. There’s his partner from work, Bruce Geldenhuys, and a couple of other friends from church. Plus the family, obviously, though Manie has deliberately put Marina between him and his own children, to keep his son at a distance. He can’t even look at Anton. What happened last night at the braai is still warm with Manie, still troubling him inside, like a fizzing in his bowels. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">There’s been some praying in Hebrew and now Rabbi Katz is giving the eulogy. He’s decided on an expansive theme for his hesped, in an attempt to heal the divisions in this family. Rachel came to me, he tells them, six months ago, when she knew she was dying. She had been away from her own people, her own faith, for a long time. Years. And she didn’t expect to return. But life works in peculiar ways. And sometimes it’s only when you know life is ending that you can finally give it a meaning. So it was with Rachel. I believe it would have made her very pleased to see all of you here today, both sides of her family, Jewish and non-Jewish, English-speaking and Afrikaans. It would have felt right to her that everybody should come together for her sake. The world is imperfect, yes, but at moments like these it can be whole . . . etc., etc. You see his point, how Rachel made short-sighted choices, which left her dissatisfied, but at the last she journeyed back to where she began, and thus closed the circle. The rabbi is fascinated by mathematics, geometric forms in particular, and for him the circle is so obviously perfect that all divisions should fade away before it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">While he speaks, he waves his stubby hands around in a repetitive way, but his voice is reassuring, with a calm, even tone, like that used by dentists and air hostesses, and it’s conducive to reverie. Many of those assembled in front of him have drifted sideways in their minds, far from what he’s saying. To counter the paganism around her, Tannie Marina is reciting the Lord’s Prayer quietly, under her breath. She feels her faith swelling in her almost physically, like a tumour. Ag, sis. It’s a tumour that killed Rachel, Ockie has often thought about it, what would it actually look like, if you lift it up, into the light? A clot of rubber and blood, like something that blocks the sink, or is it more subtle? A foreign object penetrating your body, the memory of it so recent that it stirs your very cells, and Astrid shifts on the hard pew, feeling moist and restless. She had sex yesterday with Dean de Wet in one of the stalls down at the stables, and it was beautiful, despite the smell of fresh dung. The horse stamped and huffed in a neighbouring stall, rustling the straw with his hooves. Shit, that’s what it is, thinks Anton, all of it is horseshit, everything you’re saying, not one word of it is true. I killed her. I shot and killed her in Katlehong, it wasn’t God who took her, before her time. But you think there’s an order, you think your actions matter, that they’ll be weighed and judged in some final reckoning. But there is no reckoning. For each of us, death is the last day. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And so, for Rachel, the rabbi concludes, knowing that she was going to die was the beginning of a new life.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At the end of the row, pressed between her brother and sister, Amor is alone. That’s how it feels to her. Never been more solitary than in this forest of people. Nothing around her, nothing and nobody except that wooden box, and inside it, but don’t think about that, don’t think about what’s inside. The box is empty and it has four sides, no, six, no, more, but what does it matter when it’s going into the ground?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The truth is that my mother is dead and she lies inside that box. As she thinks it, the solid world comes undone, starts to liquefy. She feels it slide. Clenches herself, presses her thighs together. Make it stop. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Now everybody is on their feet to sing. But Amor sinks back to the bench, feeling suddenly faint. Leans first towards Anton, then sharply the other way, to her sister. Tugs on Astrid’s arm, to pull her down.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What is it?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The first time she tries to say it, she sounds like a puncture.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What? Astrid hisses back, screwing up her face.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I think I might be . . . </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You know. Bleeding. Down there. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid blinks slowly. Oh, you can’t be serious. Don’t you have something with you? She glares at her little sister, then leans the other way to pull their aunt down into the picture too. Whispers to her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What? Tannie Marina says. Shhh.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid hesitates, then tries again. This time she hisses a little too loudly, so that a woman behind them, an acquaintance of Rachel’s from schooldays, has her nostalgic reverie disturbed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Marina’s mind takes a few moments to fix on what is being said to her. The last menstruation in her case is far in the past, soon after her last child was born, and these days it’s unpleasant to imagine such a thing is even possible. But apparently it is, it’s happening right now, at the worst conceivable moment.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I must say, she whispers furiously, this is very selfish of her. Doesn’t she have a . . . ?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid shrugs. She is not her sister’s keeper!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Now everybody is starting to shuffle around and cough, and the pall-bearers are going to the front to pick up the coffin. Seems the service is over and there’s a procession outside to do the burial part. Marina knows she ought to help her niece, but leaving now would be terrible, it would be like when Ockie erased the who-shot-JR episode of <em class="italic">Dallas</em> from the VHS player by mistake before she’d seen it. She takes hold of Astrid by one elbow and whispers to her instead. Take her outside and look after her. We’ll deal with it after this.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Me? Why must I do it?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because she’s your sister.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid is amazed. She has never thought of Amor as a possible adult, somebody with breasts and blood and opinions, much less with the power to expel her from their mother’s funeral and to shame her in the process. Yet here they are, while everybody is chugging along in one direction, the two of them heading in the other. Outside, she turns on her sister. How could you do this? she says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I can’t help it, Amor says, and at this moment feels a cramp go through her, a hot wringing close to the core. It’s like when she stepped on a nail that time, running in the grass. How she’d wailed. Ma, Ma, please help me! </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">With a pinched face, Astrid casts around. Nothing to be done, she decides. Sit over there till it’s over. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She means a bench by the front entrance, but Amor finds a cloakroom nearby and goes inside, into a greeny sharp-smelling space, and finds a cubicle, and withdraws. The drip and mutter of water everywhere, a broken pipe maybe. Another cramp rising from the depths. The scene flickers around her, like a black-and-white film. She can’t believe this is happening, that she’s cooling her forehead on a wall tile in a public toilet instead of accompanying Ma’s coffin on its last few steps, through the thickets of gravestones. A fine spring day, light sifting down through the bud-heavy trees. The levayah proceeds slowly, pausing for the recitation of Psalm 91, then lingering a little before shuffling on again. There’s a snory sound of bees, jacaranda blossoms pop absurdly underfoot. Till just a short way further the same pause is repeated, the same singing of the psalm, and it seems this is how it will go on, in stages towards the grave, but Amor isn’t here for any of it. She’s doubled over, thinking, I need a painkiller, I must have a painkiller. But what will kill the pain of not being there while the casket is let down into the grave? Or not being one of those who step forward now to take hold of the spade and throw a shovel-load of earth onto the box? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Whack! The thud of soil on wood is very final, like a big door slamming closed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But where is Amor? Where is Astrid?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton turns in bewilderment, unsure whom to hand the spade on to. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">They had to go somewhere, Tannie Marina hisses. Give that thing to your uncle.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where did they have to go? The question keeps bothering him, while the line of people goes slowly past, each tossing their quota down into the hole. Bit by bit, the coffin disappears, as if the ground is taking bites out of it. Not so different from our style. Whack, goodbye, good riddance. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Astrid watches from a distance and when the Kaddish is finally done and the small crowd starts to disperse, she bangs on the toilet door and yells at her sister to come out. Amor staggers forth, clenching her thighs together, grateful to be wearing black. As the family draws closer, the questions that will be asked draw closer too, Where did you go, What happened to you, and there seem to be no answers to hand. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But Tannie Marina makes sure she’s there before any of the men arrive. Don’t worry, I’ll take care of it. She has a long-practised mode of imparting confidences and instructions, mouth close to the submissive ear, in this case those of her husband/son/brother, and then Ockie and Wessel go off with Manie and she’s steering her nieces towards her own car while she squeezes her hands into those little white golfing gloves. Well, I don’t mind telling you, I’m very glad that’s over. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Though in fact it isn’t over, because everybody is expected at the Levis’ house for the after-party or whatever these people call it. Marcia caught Manie at a wobbly moment just after the interment, her face whetted and purposeful, but he still can’t believe he said yes. Nor could she, it was obvious. Thought she could count on his antipathy. Well, we’re still in the same place. I’m sure you remember how to find us. He does, of course, wishes he could forget. But we’re not going for long, he tells Ockie as they get into the car. Just showing ourselves for a while, then our duty is done.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But where are Astrid and Amor? Anton is still bewildered, not least at being pressed up against his unpleasant cousin Wessel, who always smells unwashed. Manie’s buggered if he’ll answer any question from his son again, so it’s left to Oom Ockie to explain. They’re driving with Tannie Marina, he says, but offers nothing else. A mystery! Why have people changed cars? What could make two girls walk out of their mother’s funeral, just at the important moment?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph"> They’re driving with Tannie Marina to the same destination, but they have to make a little detour on the way. They find a shopping mall a few blocks away, rows of cars twinkling merrily in the sun. Just going to double-park, we won’t be long. She counts out money from her purse into Astrid’s hand. I’ll wait here. You can bring me the change. There’s a queue at the entrance to the mall, everybody’s bags being sent through a metal detector in case of bombs, then a long walk to the pharmacy at the other end. Amor has to stop twice along the way for the cramps to pass, leaning on the wall. Then she’s with her sister in a queue at the pharmacy, among shelves groaning under the bounty of products to help people with their bodily functions, staunching this, alleviating that, sanitising something else, while she turns the soft packet fearfully in her hand. Astrid slips her the money, Here, you pay, it’s for you, isn’t it? The wait isn’t long, a minute or two, but the cramps are coming regularly now, in waves. And all this time I thought I was sick about Ma. She looks down at her feet, allowing them to become the whole world, till she’s at the counter and the woman in the white coat is looking sympathetically at her. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And they should really sort it out at the mall, but she can’t face another public toilet today, so just keep going, keep going. Do it when we get there. Marcia and Ben live in Waterkloof, in a sprawling double-storey amid two acres of foliage. They’re used to entertaining, though that’s not quite the word today, and have employed their regular caterers. Marriage, funeral, whatever, people have to eat. Two long tables have been set up on the back patio and tea and coffee and some light snacks provided. All very restrained and tasteful. Marcia is something of a society hostess and knows how things should be done. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And here again, as soon as they’re through the front door, Tannie Marina does her conspiratorial head-bend and speaks into Marcia’s ear, and Astrid and Amor are quickly directed down a side passage. There are candles burning all over the house and even in the guest bathroom the mirrors are covered, which has the creepy effect of making you feel observed. As if Amor needs to be more self-conscious!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Okay, I’ll wait outside, Astrid says. Been years since they’ve seen each other naked and even the thought of it is horrible.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Help me, Amor whispers.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, no. Her little sister will never be beautiful, no, not like me, and Astrid doesn’t want to watch her doing what she has to do. No way, she says. Don’t be a baby, just stick it in your panty, it’s a sanitary pad, even you can work it out, just look at the instructions! I’ll wait for you outside.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">She goes out, closing the door behind her, leaving Amor alone in the bathroom. Alone in the world. Where is Ma? She’s supposed to be here, right now, at this very moment, to help. But she went away, while I was gone.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Every surface in this house is made of some expensive material, steel or marble or glass, and if a bit of wood shows here and there it’s been sanded and varnished into smooth submission, and Astrid wants it, she wants the whole world to be made of fine, sculpted surfaces like these. Makes you realise how rough everything is at home, how full of sharp edges and angles. Authentic, Pa would call it, but who needs reality? This is much better. Astrid trails her fingertips over the wallpaper, feeling the raised ridges of its patterns.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">A man comes down the passage and stops uncertainly nearby. Is it occupied?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes, my sister’s inside. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He loiters, his eyes going over the shape of Astrid’s body, especially her breasts and legs. He’s an old guy, forty at least, and not attractive, bald with bad skin, but she can’t help responding to his stare. Shifts from one hip to another, tucking a strand of hair behind her ear. Funny how you can always sense male attention, especially when it’s concealed, and she thinks that this old man wants to say something to her, he has a dirty word he wants to speak aloud, and part of her wants to hear it too. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">After a little while she knocks on the door. Hurry up!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He keeps on staring, not saying his word, but Amor emerges just then. She’s done what she had to and can feel the alteration, like a faint pressure at the centre of her body. A strangeness within, around which the rest of her has been composed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Are you finished? Astrid says, speaking too loudly. Is that it now? I hope there’s nothing else important I have to miss because of you. She goes ahead of Amor, swinging her hips. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The lounge is jammed with people, humming like a hive of bees. Astrid plunges right in, while her younger sister stops. Better to hang back in the doorway. The threshold seems like the place to be, not here or there, not one thing or another. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton sees her from across the room. He’s been standing there for a while, observing the gesticulant scene unfolding, like events in an aquarium. There are my relatives, near and far, come to pay respects to my mother. There is my father, who turns his head away when he sees me, and there is my little sister in the doorway, but something about her is different. He can pick it up right away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Did you change your hair?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Did you change your top?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton looks her over again, intrigued. He knows he’s right and he can see she knows he knows. She twists and turns in her discomfort, but outwardly shows calm. She has learned to do that, to keep hidden what counts.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You changed something, he says.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">This is later, outside the house, while Pa has gone off to find Lexington, who’s parked around the block. Astrid is also there, but she’s speaking to Tannie Marina, leaving Amor and Anton alone. All the goodbyes said, the rites conducted, our mother underground.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where did you go?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">When?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At the funeral. You and Astrid. Where did you go off to?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Again the twisting and turning. Something happened. He doesn’t understand, or only half, or only half wants to. Better not to know! Or to know by other means.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In any case, here comes the car at last, Lexington at the wheel, Pa glowering beside him. He leans over to press impatiently on the hooter and they fit themselves into the back seat, the two older children on either side, Amor in the middle, huddled forward over the bed of hot coals she holds inside her body, and then they are driving away in silence, the remaining Swart family, each of them tired and grieving and complicated in their own particular way, back towards the farm and the house they call home.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The house is empty at this moment. It’s been deserted for a couple of hours, apparently inert but making tiny movements, sunlight stalking through those rooms, wind rattling the doors, expanding here, contracting there, giving off little pops and creaks and burps, like any old body. It seems alive, an illusion common to many buildings, or perhaps to how people see them, filled with mood and expression, windows like eyes. But nobody is here to witness it, nothing stirs, except for the dog in the driveway, leisurely licking his testicles.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Not even Salome is around, as she normally would be. You might have expected to see her at the funeral, but Tannie Marina told her in no uncertain terms that she would not be allowed to attend. Why not? Ag, don’t be stupid. So Salome has gone back to her own house instead, beg your pardon, to the Lombard place, and changed into her church clothes, which she would have worn to the service, a dark dress, patched and darned, and a black shawl and her only good pair of shoes, and a handbag and hat, and like that she sits out in front of her house, sorry, the Lombard place, on a second-hand armchair from which the stuffing is bursting out, and says a prayer for Rachel.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">O God. I hope You can hear me. It is me, Salome. Please welcome the madam where You are and look after her carefully, because I wish to see her again one day in Heaven. I have known her a long time, from before she was a madam even, from when she and I both were young women, and in these past days we were sometimes one person. I am sure You understand because it was You who gave this great suffering to her, so that I could look after her. For that she promised this house to me and for that I thank You. Amen.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Perhaps she doesn’t pray in these words, or in any words at all, many prayers are uttered without language and they rise like all the rest. Or perhaps she prays for other things, because prayers are secret in the end, and not all to the same god. But in any case, after some time has passed, which is certainly true, see how the shadow of the anthill has moved, for the sun is no longer at its highest point, she gets up slow and stiff from the chair and goes back inside. When she emerges again, after another unmeasured interval, she is wearing her usual clothes, her ragged dress and slipslops, a cloth tied over her hair, and she sets off along the footpath around the koppie.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">It might be any day. She walks this path every morning and back again at night, and often a couple of times in between. All lights and all weathers. Hard to tell one journey from another. When she gets to the back door she leaves her slipslops outside and proceeds barefoot. Her uniform hangs in the pantry, blue dress with white doek and white apron, and she’s allowed to use the bathroom for two minutes to change. Then hangs her own clothes out of sight, round the corner in the pantry.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Only now can she go further, into the deeper reaches of the house. The family has returned, or maybe they never left, they give off an air of rootedness, of being dug in. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Let’s say they are sitting around the dining-room table. Or standing at different angles in the lounge. Or out on the front stoep, one party down in the driveway and the other in the more commanding position above. It doesn’t matter. The following exchange takes place between Manie and his eldest child, somewhere.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I have thought about your words the other night, Pa says, and I am very angry.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">At moments like these he likes to model his tone on the Old Testament god, and expects therefore to be obeyed.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Yes?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Not for my sake, but for the sake of others. That you were rude to me is nothing new. I expect it. But the way you spoke to the dominee! A holy man, a preacher.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton sniffs and smiles. A fool and a charlatan.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That’s enough! The disrespect stops today. Listen now and hear me well. If you don’t apologise to him, you are out of this family. I will never speak to you again.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">For Manie has brooded upon the events of the previous evening, like a hen upon a huge black egg. You have offended my marriage and my religion, and you shall pay. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You must know, Pa, that I can never do it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Can’t help you. Between you and your conscience.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I won’t say sorry to that man. For what? I only spoke the truth.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The truth? Manie is outraged afresh, even the bristles on his chin standing out like little spikes. About my wife? About promises I didn’t make? Choose your side, it’s up to you. But if you do not humble yourself, you are out in the wilderness.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Only when their father has gone, making a loud and righteous exit, does his younger daughter show herself, emerging from behind a pot plant like a character in a farce. Anton, Anton. I heard what he said.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What is it, Amor?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He speaks irritably, for she is spoiling what might otherwise be a high, clear moment for him. To be cast out from the family, to be free of all this!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">I heard what Pa said to you, and it isn’t right.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What isn’t right? </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He did promise. I heard him. He promised Ma he would give Salome her house.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Her little face is lit from within by its sureness.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Amor, he says gently.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Salome can’t own the house. Even if Pa wanted to, he can’t give it to her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Why not? she says, puzzled.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Because, he says. It’s against the law.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The law? Why?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You are not serious. But then he looks at her and sees how serious she is. Oh, dear me, he says. Do you have no idea what country you’re living in?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">No, she doesn’t. Amor is thirteen years old, history has not yet trod on her. She has no idea what country she’s living in. She has seen black people running away from the police because they’re not carrying their passbooks and heard adults talking in urgent, low voices about riots in the townships and only last week at school they had to learn a drill about hiding under tables in case of attack, and still she doesn’t know what country she’s living in. There’s a State of Emergency and people are being arrested and detained without trial and there are rumours flying around but no solid facts because there is a blackout on news and only happy, unreal stories are being reported, but she mostly believes these stories. She saw her brother’s head bleeding yesterday from a rock, but still, even now, she doesn’t yet know who threw the rock or why. Blame it on the lightning. She’s always been a slow child. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">One thing, though, perturbs her.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But why? she says. Why did you tell Pa to give Salome her house if you knew he couldn’t?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He shrugs. Because, he says. I felt like it.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">And it’s exactly then, in the tiniest way, without even knowing it herself, that she begins to understand what country she’s living in.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The next day she’s dispatched, with her suitcase, back to the hostel. Just for a few months more, Pa tells her when she tries to protest. Till things settle down. She knows better than to argue, she can hear from his voice that it’s useless. Even though he promised, and a Christian never goes back on his word, her needs are minor, she doesn’t matter. So Lexington drives her to the school and drops her by the fishpond, and she must slowly ascend the narrow stairs to the dormitory, with its cold linoleum floors, the beds in their regulated rows, identical, and hers in the corner, unchanged.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Her brother leaves the next morning, or is it the morning after that, the early hours are all alike in the springtime. He carries his military bag and his rifle and he wears his uniform, ironed for him by Salome, though he’s polished the boots himself. Nobody there to see him off. Astrid is asleep and Pa has already gone to the reptile park to work. Lexington brings the Triumph to the front steps and Anton loads his bag into the boot. Keeps his rifle with him, for the look of it, just in case.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Goodbye, house. Goodbye, Pa, though you will not answer. Dawn is welling up like a wound as they jounce down the track. Anton gets out to open and close the gate and then they head off, away from the city, on lonely roads.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">There’s a spot, a military pickup point near Johannesburg, from where he can make his way. Two other troepies there already, waiting for a ride. He unloads his bag from the boot and leans in at the passenger window. Cheers, Lex, go in triumph. Goodbye, Anton. See you next time.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Close to noon, he approaches the military camp where he’s stationed. His last lift has set him down half a kilometre away and he has to walk a long suburban street towards the front gates. Through a tall fence topped with barbed wire he can see the shapes of tents and prefabricated bungalows, rows and rows of them, other young men like himself moving between them, washing clothes, smoking cigarettes, talking.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">One of these figures detaches himself, comes over to the fence. Hey, he calls. You!</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Takes Anton a second to remember. Late at night, shadows on the tar. Payne! I told you we’d meet again.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Where’ve you been?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Home, for my mother’s funeral.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Still joking about that?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">For Payne has thought about that bizarre encounter a few nights ago, when he was on guard duty, and decided that his visitor wasn’t serious. Seen by the light of day, with a fence between them, he’s a very ordinary young man, possibly insignificant. Certainly no one to fear.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton holds on to the fence with one hand, squinting down its length towards the front gate and the two sentries he can make out there. It has become plain to him in this very moment that he cannot go back in through that gate again, cannot rejoin the scene inside. Cannot do it. And cannot say why. Something has happened, that’s all he could tell you, if he were asked. Something has happened to me.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You are witness to a significant moment, he tells Payne. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Huh?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You are watching my life jump from one track to another. You are seeing a huge change happen.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">What’s that?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">The Big No. It’s taken a long time to get here, but I’ve had enough. I’m refusing at last.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Refusing what?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">All of it. I’m saying, this far, no further. No, no, no! He thinks about it and adds, You could come with me, of course.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Come with you where? I don’t even know you.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">That would soon change.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You’re crazy, Payne says, laughing. What a joker this guy is. First he kills his mother, then he’s going AWOL at the moment he comes back to camp! Ho ho ho! He knows for sure Swart will keep walking towards the gate like everyone else and they’ll bump into each other later, probably in the mess.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">But that isn’t what he does.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Hey! Where are you going?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Back in the direction he came from, apparently. Payne has to jog along the fence to keep up.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">You’re a joker, he says. They’ll catch you. They’ll put you in detention barracks! Hey! What’s going on? This isn’t funny. Are you all right? Wait. Don’t do this. Don’t you know there’s a war on? Don’t you care about your country?</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Anton doesn’t answer because he doesn’t hear. He is pushed from behind, as if with a giant hand, by one simple, blind desire, to get away.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">In this endeavour, the uniform is both a danger and a great help. Picking up a ride is easy if you’re in the army, but you’re also a target for the military police, who’ll want to check your papers. Best to make a change soon, and a few hours later, at an all-night shop next to a highway heading south, he buys a cap to cover his head. Sunny South Africa, it says on the front. Looks stupid on him, but it definitely covers the hair and some of the stitches on his forehead. In the bathroom of a Wimpy next door, he changes into civilian clothes, jeans and a T-shirt and jersey and casual shoes. Looking at himself in the mirror, he thinks he’s passable, a young man on his way somewhere. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">Sunny South Africa. He has some such idea in his mind. Throbbing in his thoughts from the moment he walked away from the camp this morning is an image of a pristine white beach, cows standing around on the sand, chewing and lowing. In the background, misty cliffs rise out of a thick green carpet of trees. Not a part of the world he’s ever been to, but he heard some older boys at school talking about the Transkei once, about living rough in the jungle and catching fish and surfing and smoking ganja, and he has the notion that he might do that for a while. He has almost no money and no plan and he doesn’t know a soul, but all of that is part of what pulls him and he believes it’s the sort of place you could disappear in if you were so minded.</p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">First, Anton, you have to get there! By now it’s late, close to midnight, not so many cars on the road. Away from the street lights the darkness bulges in, crammed with emptiness and threat. Behind the garage next door is a muddy field, a ditch full of weeds running along the edge. He throws his rifle into the ditch, followed by the bag with his military clothes inside it. He’s kept only a few of his own shirts and pants, what he had with him, stowed in a plastic bag. What I’ve just done is a crime, he thinks, and yet it felt so weightless. </p>
			<p class="basic-paragraph">He chokes down a momentary dread, feeling how very big the world is, and trudges to a likely spot near the off-ramp to the highway. Showing himself in the fluorescent glare, one hopeful thumb outstretched. Got to have some faith! It might take a while but sooner or later, if you just keep trying, someone will stop for you.</p>
			</body>
</html>
2023-08-21 03:20:06 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-08-21 03:20:06 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-08-21 03:20:07 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-08-21 03:20:09 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:12 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:13 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:20:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:20:15 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-08-21 03:20:36 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-08-21 03:20:36 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-08-21 03:20:36 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@4cb72498
