2023-03-22 00:36:12 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-03-22 00:36:12 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-22 00:36:44 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-22 00:36:44 INFO  - Session id - dd119fdd25b25e9b262ef16270aee110bfe68409
2023-03-22 00:36:44 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-03-22 00:36:44 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:47 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-03-22 00:36:48 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-03-22 00:36:48 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:48 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-03-22 00:36:49 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-03-22 00:36:49 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:52 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-22 00:36:52 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-22 00:36:55 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:55 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-22 00:36:55 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:57 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:36:58 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:01 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-22 00:37:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:01 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:03 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:05 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:05 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000303
2023-03-22 00:37:05 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-22 00:37:06 INFO  - bookName: H Is for Hawaii Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-22 00:37:06 INFO  - bookName: Malcolm Gladwell Box Set Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-03-22 00:37:06 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 2
2023-03-22 00:37:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-22 00:37:06 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000303'
2023-03-22 00:37:08 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-22 00:37:08 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-22 00:37:10 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:37:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:37:43 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-22 00:38:05 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:38:05 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-03-22 00:38:05 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:38:27 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-03-22 00:38:47 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:38:49 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-22 00:38:50 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-4
2023-03-22 00:38:50 INFO  - randomBookName: Small Business Startup Guide
2023-03-22 00:38:50 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-22 00:38:52 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Small Business Startup Guide'
2023-03-22 00:38:55 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-22 00:38:58 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-22 00:39:00 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:39:01 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:39:33 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-22 00:39:34 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:39:35 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:39:35 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-22 00:39:37 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:39:39 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-22 00:39:39 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-22 00:40:02 INFO  - Step 15 - Save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-03-22 00:40:03 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-22 00:40:03 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-22 00:40:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-22 00:40:05 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-6" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap-SKIP"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">O</span>nce you have identified a positive risk you want to take, you might be tempted to begin exploiting it immediately. But as President Eisenhower said, “Planning is everything.” The first step you should take is to map out precisely what your business will do. Not only will this give you a roadmap to follow as your business develops, but it will help you explain to investors, potential hires, and others precisely what you<span> do.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This chapter explains the eight elements of an effective business plan. Your own business plan will look different, and you may not require all of the sections listed here. As you read, think about what you would fill in for each section. (Note: This is a good place to try out the note-taking exercise found in Appendix B.)</p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">1. Executive</span><span><span class="BOLD"> Summary</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">The executive summary provides a background for your business, and explains what it does—that is, the product or service it offers. It is an extended version of your elevator<span> pitch.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Because it is the first part of your business plan the reader will see, your executive summary should use clear, simple language. You want to make a good impression on readers and have them come away with a solid understanding of what you plan to do and how you plan to do<span> it.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Here is a simple format you can follow for the executive<span> summary:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Your business name, address, and phone<span> number</span></li>
				<li>The business segment you operate<span> in</span></li>
				<li>The product or service you<span> offer</span></li>
				<li>The problem your product or service<span> solves</span></li>
				<li>Why your product or service is<span> unique</span></li>
				<li>Your target<span> audience</span></li>
				<li>A concise outline of the remainder of your business<span> plan</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">You may add your company logo or another design to the executive summary, but ensure neither distracts from the<span> message.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">2. Business</span><span><span class="BOLD"> description</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">This is where you lay out all the details of your business. Answer expected questions up<span> front:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>When was your business<span> started?</span></li>
				<li>Who started your<span> business?</span></li>
				<li>What was the catalyst for starting your<span> business?</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">Think of this section as your business’s back story. Outline where it came from and what it needs to get to where it’s<span> going.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">3. Mission</span><span><span class="BOLD"> statement</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">A mission statement articulates your company’s purpose and fundamentally explains its existence. The major points of your mission statement should<span> be:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Your goals. What is the end result sought from your<span> business?</span></li>
				<li>Your objectives. What steps will you take to reach that end<span> result?</span></li>
				<li>Your customers. Who is your target<span> audience?</span></li>
				<li>Your industry. What market segment are you<span> targeting?</span></li>
				<li>Your strengths. How is your company different than every other company in your<span> space?</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">4. Products or</span><span><span class="BOLD"> services</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">What unique product or service are you offering?<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Detailed descriptions of your product or service, as well as pictures and associated pricing/fees as<span> appropriate.</span></li>
				<li>The benefits of your product or service. Outline the outcome when a customer uses your product or service, and how they<span> feel.</span></li>
				<li>Every favorable detail of your product or<span> service.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">5. Marketing</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Marketing is what brings your product or service to your audience. Prove that you know and can reach your targeted audience by providing detailed market research, market analysis, and industry knowledge. Demonstrate that you know your audience better than your competitors do, that you know what they need, and that you know how to deliver it to them through your product or service.<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>A clear description of your target<span> audience</span></li>
				<li>Details on the industry segment that you fit<span> into</span></li>
				<li>Your distribution<span> channels</span></li>
				<li>How your business will be<span> promoted</span></li>
				<li>A specific example of how your product or service will be offered to the<span> public</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">6. Operations</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Detail your daily activities. Describe the resources, personnel, and any real estate involved in the execution of your<span> operations.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Include:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Location</li>
				<li>Logistics</li>
				<li>Compliance</li>
				<li>Personnel</li>
				<li>Inventory</li>
				<li>Supply<span> chain</span></li>
				<li>Accounts payable/receivable</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">7. Financial</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">This may be the most important part of your business plan. Not only will it help you form a clear idea of whether or not your business idea will work financially, but it will be scrutinized by potential investors to help them determine whether or not they should give you their<span> money.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Here, you should provide a profit and loss forecast for the upcoming year, potentially in conjunction with a cash flow spreadsheet. Your CPA can generate both of these documents for you (for more information on finding a reputable CPA, see Chapter 4).</p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">8. Organizational</span><span><span class="BOLD"> management</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Detail the managerial structure of your company. You do not have to list everyone, but be as thorough as possible. This may be important in avoiding disputes later on, and it will give investors an idea of who is in charge and who fills what role.<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Board of<span> directors</span></li>
				<li>Advisers</li>
				<li>CPA</li>
				<li>Attorney</li>
				<li>Consultants</li>
				<li>Other<span> staff</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">If you get stuck while creating your business plan, consider reaching out to an expert for help. He or she will be able to help you determine which information to include and help you deliver it in an effective manner. The business plan is the foundation of your company—make sure you get it<span> right!</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table003">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip:</span> You should have a 30-second spoken elevator pitch prepared that succinctly explains your product/service in three simple points: 1) the problem you address, 2) the solution you offer, and 3) the positive outcome the customer experiences after using your product/service.</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-22 00:40:05 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-22 00:40:05 INFO  - Step 16 - Open font settings
2023-03-22 00:40:06 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:40:06 INFO  - Step 17 - INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-03-22 00:40:07 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:40:08 INFO  - Step 18 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-03-22 00:40:08 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-22 00:40:08 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-22 00:40:09 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-22 00:40:09 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:d460a74c-e6ef-4df2-ba3c-2d028006aa97" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="AFP1690_Digest_BBP-Text-6" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-1st-Drop-Cap-SKIP"><span class="_idGenDropcap-1">O</span>nce you have identified a positive risk you want to take, you might be tempted to begin exploiting it immediately. But as President Eisenhower said, “Planning is everything.” The first step you should take is to map out precisely what your business will do. Not only will this give you a roadmap to follow as your business develops, but it will help you explain to investors, potential hires, and others precisely what you<span> do.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">This chapter explains the eight elements of an effective business plan. Your own business plan will look different, and you may not require all of the sections listed here. As you read, think about what you would fill in for each section. (Note: This is a good place to try out the note-taking exercise found in Appendix B.)</p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">1. Executive</span><span><span class="BOLD"> Summary</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">The executive summary provides a background for your business, and explains what it does—that is, the product or service it offers. It is an extended version of your elevator<span> pitch.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Because it is the first part of your business plan the reader will see, your executive summary should use clear, simple language. You want to make a good impression on readers and have them come away with a solid understanding of what you plan to do and how you plan to do<span> it.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Here is a simple format you can follow for the executive<span> summary:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Your business name, address, and phone<span> number</span></li>
				<li>The business segment you operate<span> in</span></li>
				<li>The product or service you<span> offer</span></li>
				<li>The problem your product or service<span> solves</span></li>
				<li>Why your product or service is<span> unique</span></li>
				<li>Your target<span> audience</span></li>
				<li>A concise outline of the remainder of your business<span> plan</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">You may add your company logo or another design to the executive summary, but ensure neither distracts from the<span> message.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">2. Business</span><span><span class="BOLD"> description</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">This is where you lay out all the details of your business. Answer expected questions up<span> front:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>When was your business<span> started?</span></li>
				<li>Who started your<span> business?</span></li>
				<li>What was the catalyst for starting your<span> business?</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">Think of this section as your business’s back story. Outline where it came from and what it needs to get to where it’s<span> going.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">3. Mission</span><span><span class="BOLD"> statement</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">A mission statement articulates your company’s purpose and fundamentally explains its existence. The major points of your mission statement should<span> be:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Your goals. What is the end result sought from your<span> business?</span></li>
				<li>Your objectives. What steps will you take to reach that end<span> result?</span></li>
				<li>Your customers. Who is your target<span> audience?</span></li>
				<li>Your industry. What market segment are you<span> targeting?</span></li>
				<li>Your strengths. How is your company different than every other company in your<span> space?</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">4. Products or</span><span><span class="BOLD"> services</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">What unique product or service are you offering?<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Detailed descriptions of your product or service, as well as pictures and associated pricing/fees as<span> appropriate.</span></li>
				<li>The benefits of your product or service. Outline the outcome when a customer uses your product or service, and how they<span> feel.</span></li>
				<li>Every favorable detail of your product or<span> service.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">5. Marketing</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Marketing is what brings your product or service to your audience. Prove that you know and can reach your targeted audience by providing detailed market research, market analysis, and industry knowledge. Demonstrate that you know your audience better than your competitors do, that you know what they need, and that you know how to deliver it to them through your product or service.<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>A clear description of your target<span> audience</span></li>
				<li>Details on the industry segment that you fit<span> into</span></li>
				<li>Your distribution<span> channels</span></li>
				<li>How your business will be<span> promoted</span></li>
				<li>A specific example of how your product or service will be offered to the<span> public</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">6. Operations</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Detail your daily activities. Describe the resources, personnel, and any real estate involved in the execution of your<span> operations.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Include:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Location</li>
				<li>Logistics</li>
				<li>Compliance</li>
				<li>Personnel</li>
				<li>Inventory</li>
				<li>Supply<span> chain</span></li>
				<li>Accounts payable/receivable</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">7. Financial</span><span><span class="BOLD"> plan</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">This may be the most important part of your business plan. Not only will it help you form a clear idea of whether or not your business idea will work financially, but it will be scrutinized by potential investors to help them determine whether or not they should give you their<span> money.</span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph">Here, you should provide a profit and loss forecast for the upcoming year, potentially in conjunction with a cash flow spreadsheet. Your CPA can generate both of these documents for you (for more information on finding a reputable CPA, see Chapter 4).</p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Heading"><span class="BOLD">8. Organizational</span><span><span class="BOLD"> management</span></span></p>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-No-1st-line-Indent">Detail the managerial structure of your company. You do not have to list everyone, but be as thorough as possible. This may be important in avoiding disputes later on, and it will give investors an idea of who is in charge and who fills what role.<span> Include:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Board of<span> directors</span></li>
				<li>Advisers</li>
				<li>CPA</li>
				<li>Attorney</li>
				<li>Consultants</li>
				<li>Other<span> staff</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="Body-Styles_Paragraph-AFTER">If you get stuck while creating your business plan, consider reaching out to an expert for help. He or she will be able to help you determine which information to include and help you deliver it in an effective manner. The business plan is the foundation of your company—make sure you get it<span> right!</span></p>
			<table class="Basic-Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table003">
				<colgroup>
					<col />
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="Basic-Table">
						<td class="Basic-Table CellOverride-1">
							<p class="Body-Styles_Note---Tip"><span class="BOLD">Tip:</span> You should have a 30-second spoken elevator pitch prepared that succinctly explains your product/service in three simple points: 1) the problem you address, 2) the solution you offer, and 3) the positive outcome the customer experiences after using your product/service.</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-03-22 00:40:09 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-22 00:40:10 INFO  - Step 19 - Restart app
2023-03-22 00:40:35 INFO  - Step 20 - Open Books
2023-03-22 00:40:35 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:40:36 INFO  - Step 21 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-22 00:40:56 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:19 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-22 00:41:21 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-22 00:41:23 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:26 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:27 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:28 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:41:32 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:41:32 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-22 00:41:33 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-22 00:41:54 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-03-22 00:41:54 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@6b8e5aae
