2023-09-02 15:20:30 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-09-02 15:20:30 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-02 15:20:55 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-02 15:20:55 INFO  - Session id - 67d216e6f235502ea8457bf5b89e8f5e0c37ed9a
2023-09-02 15:20:55 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-02 15:20:55 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:20:58 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-02 15:20:58 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-02 15:20:58 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:20:59 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-02 15:21:01 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-02 15:21:01 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 15:21:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-02 15:21:05 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:06 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-02 15:21:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:11 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:12 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-02 15:21:12 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:13 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:14 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:15 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:16 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000005
2023-09-02 15:21:16 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: The Song of Achilles Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@479f051b
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: The Sympathizer Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@6aabe1e2
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: Let's Hear It For Beagles Distributor: BiblioBoard
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Milk and Honey Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@49531e4
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: The Will to Change Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: Fahrenheit 451 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - bookName: Animal Instinct Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 15:21:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000005'
2023-09-02 15:21:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 15:21:19 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-02 15:21:21 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:21:28 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:21:28 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-02 15:21:49 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:21:50 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-02 15:21:50 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:22:11 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-02 15:22:32 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:22:33 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Axis 360' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-02 15:22:33 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-2
2023-09-02 15:22:33 INFO  - randomBookName: Quicksand
2023-09-02 15:22:34 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 15:22:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Quicksand'
2023-09-02 15:22:36 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 15:22:37 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 15:22:38 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:22:38 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:22:45 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 15:22:45 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:22:46 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:22:46 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-02 15:22:48 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:22:48 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-02 15:22:48 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-02 15:23:07 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-09-02 15:23:09 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:09 INFO  - Step 16 - Change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-09-02 15:23:09 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:10 INFO  - Step 17 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-09-02 15:23:11 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-02 15:23:11 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-02 15:23:11 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-09-02 15:23:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 15:23:12 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily: sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>Week 1 of Trial: Monday - 2, Quicksand: A Novel</title>
		<link href="prhStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="prhStyle-media-queries.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<link href="Giol_9781590518588_epub3_css_r1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta content="urn:uuid:9d899a25-27e4-4974-95ba-6dc2369fb47e" name="Adept.expected.resource" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body>
		<div class="page_top_padding" id="c02">
			<p class="week sans" id="p1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_17" title="17"></span>Week 1 of Trial: Monday</p>
			<p class="Day sans" id="p2">2.</p>
			<p id="p3">Mom bought the clothes I’m wearing today. But I might as well be in a black-and-white-striped jumpsuit. I’m wearing a costume.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p4">Then again, girls are always wearing a costume. Dressing up as the pretty, with-it girl, or the serious smart girl. Or as the totally chill I-don’t-care-how-I-look girl, with her hair in a purposely messy ponytail, a cotton bra with no underwires, and an almost-see-through T-shirt.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p5">Mom has tried to dress me up as a perfectly normal eighteen-year-old girl who ended up here through no fault of her own. But my blouse strains across my breasts. I’ve gained weight in jail and there are little round gaps between the buttons. I look like a salesperson who has put on a doctor’s coat to dash after people in a shopping mall with my skin-care samples. <i>Don’t think you’re fooling anyone</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p6">“You look so nice, honey,” Mom whispered from her spot at the front. She always does that, tosses compliments after me, like trash she expects me to sort. Made-up compliments that have nothing to do with reality. I am <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_18" title="18"></span>not “beautiful” or “good at drawing.” I shouldn’t sing more or <i>take drama classes</i> after school. It is terribly insulting for Mom to suggest that I should, because it proves she has no idea what I’m actually good at, or when I actually do look pretty. My mom does not have sufficient interest in me to succeed in giving me a compliment that’s actually accurate.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p7">My mom has always been inexplicably clueless. “Run out and play for a while, if you want to,” she might urge in those last few months when she didn’t have the energy to pretend she wished I would “stick around and talk about your day.” <i>Run out and play for a while?</i> I was old enough to vote and buy drinks at a bar. It had been legal for me to fuck for three years. What did she think I was going to do? Play hide-and-seek with the neighbors? One <i>two three four ready or not here I come</i>, breathless laps around the yard to check behind the same old bush, in the same old wardrobe, behind the same old broken garden umbrella in the garage. “Did you have fun?” she would ask when I came back, my clothes reeking of pot. “Would you hang your jacket in the basement, honey?”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p8">Last night I got to talk to my mom on the phone. Her voice was higher than normal. That’s the voice she uses when someone else is listening or when she’s multitasking. Mom is almost always multitasking, straightening the house, moving things around, wiping off counters, sorting stuff. She is constantly nervous, fidgety. She always has been; it’s not my fault.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p9">“It’s going to be fine,” she said. Several times. Her words tripped over each other. I didn’t say much. Just <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_19" title="19"></span>listened to her too-high voice. “It’s going to be fine. Don’t worry, everything will be fine.”</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p10">Sander has tried to explain what will happen during the hearing, what I can expect. In jail I got to watch an informative video in which painfully bad actors performed a trial about two guys who got into a fight at a bar. The defendant was found guilty, but not of all the charges, only like half. When we were done watching the video, Sander asked if I had any questions. “No,” I said.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p11">What I remember best about the tax trial we visited on our class trip was that it was so quiet. Everyone spoke in a hushed voice and all other noises became exaggerated—someone clearing their throat, a door closing, a chair scraping the floor. If someone had forgotten to put their phone on silent and got a text in there, it would have roared as loud as when the lights go down at the movies and they demonstrate how they’ve just installed a new surround-sound system.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p12">And while everything was quiet, the tax evader sat there pushing his greasy hair off his forehead. As the prosecutor read the charges out loud, the man looked at his attorney and hissed out indignant snorts. I remember thinking that he was a moron. Why was he pretending to be surprised? The prosecutor and the moron’s attorney talked one at a time, read out loud, said the same thing two or three times, and cleared their throats too much.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p13">The whole show was lame. Not because nothing was “like it is in the movies,” but because everyone involved <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_20" title="20"></span>seemed bored to tears; the criminal himself seemed to have a hard time concentrating. Even in reality, everyone was a crappy actor who hadn’t bothered to learn his lines.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p14">Samir, though, he didn’t think any of it was ridiculous. He leaned forward in his uncomfortable chair, rested his elbows on his knees, and scrunched up his forehead. This was his specialty: showing how earnest he was, that he took serious things seriously. Samir looked like he thought that these polyester-clad losers were the most fascinating speakers he’d ever heard in his life. And Christer was pleased. By the court and by Serious Samir. Samir seldom had to open his mouth in order to French-kiss Christer’s ass. We teased him about that afterward, me and Amanda. We liked to tease Samir. But Labbe patted him on the shoulder as if he were his youngest son and had just made the winning goal in a soccer game. “Samir gets it,” Labbe said, and Samir grinned. “Samir always gets it.”</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p15">Things were pretty good at home, too, during my second year. Mom and I still talked about stuff that had nothing to do with what time she thought my curfew should be. Mom was proud of me, or at least of the way she had raised me. She bragged about her effective methods of getting me to do exactly what it took to make her life easier. She told stories like how I slept through the night at just four months old, how I ate “everything” and held my own spoon the very first time I tried solid food. How I wanted to start school a year early, because I thought preschool was boring. How I wanted to walk to school by myself before I even <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_21" title="21"></span>turned eight, and how I “loved” being home alone without a babysitter. She said she let me start riding a balance bike before I used a real bicycle, and thanks to this, she never had to bend over and hold on to the fender to keep me from tipping over. I was able to just <i>poof!</i> ride a bike, and she could walk alongside in her flowy clothes and laugh just loud enough. What Mom did for me, to make <i>my</i> life easier, never came up, but back then, she was thoroughly convinced that I was so easy and trouble-free thanks to everything she had done right.</p>
			<p class="morespaceabove" id="p16">Today, in here, it is also quiet, I suppose. But not in the same way as during the tax trial. The air feels thick from all the important people waiting for important things to happen. The prosecutor and the lawyers are probably scared shitless that they’ll make fools of themselves. Even Sander is nervous, although you’d never notice if you didn’t know him.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p17">They want to show what they’re made of. When Pancake talked about how he thought it would go, he used phrases like “the odds” and “our chances,” just as if he were my basketball coach and I played center on the team. He wants to <i>win</i>. Pancake didn’t shut up until Sander clicked his tongue.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p18">The day’s proceedings begin when the chief judge recites some sort of roll call. He clears his throat into the microphone, and people stop whispering to each other. The judge checks to make sure everyone who is supposed to be here is here. I don’t have to raise my hand and say “present,” but the judge nods at me and reads my name. Then he nods at <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_22" title="22"></span>my attorneys and reads their names, too. He speaks slowly, but not sleepily; he’s bursting with so much solemnity that he might split the seams of his ugly suit.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p19">The judge bids me welcome, he honestly does. I don’t say <i>thanks for having me</i>, because it’s not like I’m supposed to respond, but I think I’m doing all the right stuff. I look more or less as I should. I don’t smile, I don’t cry, I don’t stick my finger in any orifices. My back is straight but not too straight, and I’m trying to keep the buttons of my blouse from zinging right off.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p20">When the chief judge tells the prosecutor that she may begin, she looks so wired that I think she’s going to stand up. But she just scoots her chair in, leans toward the little straw-shaped microphone, presses a button, and clears her throat. Like she’s taking her mark.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p21">Out in the lawyers’ waiting room, where we were sitting before we came in here, Pancake told me that people have been standing in line to get a seat in the courtroom. “Just like a concert,” he declared, almost proudly. Sander looked like he wanted to deck him.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p22">There’s nothing about this trial that resembles a concert. I’m no rock star. The people who are drawn to me aren’t wild groupies, they’re just scavengers. When the journalists use me as bait on their front pages, it smells like death, and the hyenas get even more worked up.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p23">But Sander still wanted the hearing to be public. In fact, he demanded the media and the general public be allowed in, even though I’m so young. Not to make Pancake feel like a badass, but because “it is crucial to keep the prosecutor <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_23" title="23"></span>from monopolizing the news reports.” This almost certainly means that he is eager to show off his own contributions, but maybe he also imagines that my haters will be swayed if only they get to hear “my version.” Sander is wrong. That’s not going to matter. They love to hate me. They hate everything about me. <i>Just like a concert?</i> It seems highly unlikely that Pancake has ever been in the vicinity of live music that doesn’t belong in the dork category. If I had to guess, he listens to the classic rock station and sings along to ads for the perfect family car.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p24">Nine months ago, one week after it all happened, there were riots in Djursholm. A bunch of guys took the metro to Mörby, transferred to bus 606, and rode all eight stops to Djursholm Square. So they could “teach those fuckers a thing or two.” Or, as the more articulate ones put it, “those fucking snobs.”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p25">Riots usually take place in the thugs’ own run-down neighborhoods, among the public housing projects and the youth rec centers and the detoxed motorcycle guys who are “youth leaders” and “neighborhood liaisons” because no normal employer wants to touch them. And when it says in the paper that “the streets are burning,” they’re usually talking about pimped-out wrecks with tree-shaped air fresheners, not fully insured leased vehicles that are in the company’s name and are traded in as soon as one of the side mirrors stops working. But not this time.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p26">For three days and nights, it was all-out war at Djursholm Square and around Sebastian’s house down on Strandvägen, the fanciest residential street, by the water. On the second <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_24" title="24"></span>night, there were around fifty people involved. Sander told me, he showed me the articles.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p27">Broken windows in the frumpy shops on the square. What did they loot? A pussy-bow blouse each, plaids, and crystal wine carafes? And where did they go after they were shooed away from the Fagerman estate? Up to our house? Could they find their way? And considering how important my mom thought it was to “say a proper hello to show respect” to the very first beggar who sat outside the Coop grocery store on Vendevägen with a paper cup and a urinestained blanket, what did she do about the baseball bats and the Molotov cocktails? “Hello there. Have a nice day. Enjoy your weekend.” I wonder what Mom said to the National Task Force during the days they helped “keep order” outside our house? “Is everything okay?”</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p28">The newspapers Sander showed me speculated on <i>Why?</i> Whether it had to do with what Sebastian and I “symbolized,” what we were “a manifestation of,” and what we had done “had unleashed.” Did riots break out because what happened was so incredibly horrible? Were the rioters extra angry because we were rich and they weren’t? Or did violence break out solely because a group of small-time gangsters wanted a reason to fight (and because there was no soccer game to vandalize that weekend)? Whatever the reason, those thugs won’t be allowed in here.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p29">The gallery is mostly full of journalists. Many of them are typing on laptops. No one is allowed to take pictures; there’s a “ban on photography,” and presumably they also had to give up their phones before they came in. In any <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_25" title="25"></span>case, some of the journalists are even using plain old pens and notebooks.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p30">There’s a poor artist here, too. You’d think I was something out of Dickens, a flea-bitten kid who might get the gallows. Or some Elvira Madigan type from an old broadsheet. <a id="cre1"></a><i>Why, even in this day and age, tragedy may strike</i>. We sang that song in middle school. Naturally, Amanda cried; she was at her prettiest when she was crying but wasn’t sad for real (“adorable!”)—it would get her even more attention than usual.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p31">Amanda is described as my best friend. In the newspapers, on TV, in the case report; even my own attorney calls her that. <i>My best friend</i>.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p32">Was Amanda the person I spent the most time with, besides Sebastian? Yes. Was Amanda the person I talked to the most, besides Sebastian? Yes. Is she standing next to me in approximately 260 of my Facebook photos? Did I Snapchat with her on average two hours a day during the first four of the six months’ worth of phone records they obtained? Did she tag me in over a hundred <a href="https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/bff/">#bff</a> posts on Instagram? Yes. Yes. Yes.</p>
			<p class="indent" id="p33">Did I love Amanda? Was she my very best friend? I don’t know.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
2023-09-02 15:23:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 15:23:13 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-02 15:23:14 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-02 15:23:15 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:21 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:22 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:23:24 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:23:24 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 15:23:45 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 15:23:45 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-02 15:23:45 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@27496086
