2023-09-02 14:38:23 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of font style' start
2023-09-02 14:38:23 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-09-02 14:38:51 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-09-02 14:38:51 INFO  - Session id - e1340c1e5025227c76d255a9fc53cc45fc49aa33
2023-09-02 14:38:51 INFO  - Step 0 - Close tutorial screen
2023-09-02 14:38:52 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:38:54 INFO  - Step 1 - Welcome screen is opened
2023-09-02 14:38:54 INFO  - Step 2 - Close welcome screen
2023-09-02 14:38:54 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:38:55 INFO  - Step 3 - Add library screen is opened
2023-09-02 14:38:56 INFO  - Step 4 - Add library "LYRASIS Reads" on Add library screen
2023-09-02 14:38:56 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:38:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 14:38:57 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-09-02 14:39:00 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:02 INFO  - Step 5 - Account "LYRASIS Reads" is present on Accounts screen
2023-09-02 14:39:02 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:06 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:08 INFO  - Step 6 - Enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-09-02 14:39:08 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:08 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:09 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:10 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:11 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000002
2023-09-02 14:39:11 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: Snow Crash Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: Phantom Lover Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Unprotected Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@4f9d3967
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: The Black Kids Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: The Ice Queen Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: Legacy Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - bookName: The Innovators Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - Books without revoke in link. BookName: Chocolate Cream Pie Murder Distributor: framework.utilities.returningBooksUtil.Distributor@20c6cf64
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 6
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 14:39:12 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000002'
2023-09-02 14:39:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-09-02 14:39:13 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-09-02 14:39:16 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:39:21 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:39:22 INFO  - Step 7 - Login is performed successfully
2023-09-02 14:39:42 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:39:43 INFO  - Step 8 - Open Catalog
2023-09-02 14:39:43 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:40:04 INFO  - Step 9 - Open search modal
2023-09-02 14:40:24 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:40:26 INFO  - Step 10 - Search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-09-02 14:40:26 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-09-02 14:40:26 INFO  - randomBookName: The Crooked Castle
2023-09-02 14:40:26 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 14:40:26 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Crooked Castle'
2023-09-02 14:40:29 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-09-02 14:40:33 INFO  - Step 11 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 14:40:33 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:40:34 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:40:41 INFO  - Step 12 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-09-02 14:40:42 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:40:42 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:40:42 INFO  - Step 13 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-09-02 14:40:43 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:40:44 INFO  - Step 14 - Scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-09-02 14:40:44 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-09-02 14:41:06 INFO  - Step 15 - Open font settings
2023-09-02 14:41:08 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:09 INFO  - Step 16 - Change font style to FONT_SERIF
2023-09-02 14:41:09 INFO  - Button 'setFontSerif' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:10 INFO  - Step 17 - Book text displays in FONT_SERIF font
2023-09-02 14:41:10 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-09-02 14:41:10 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-09-02 14:41:10 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_Terrace
2023-09-02 14:41:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 14:41:12 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" style="--RS__viewportWidth: calc(1600px / 2.125); --USER__fontFamily: serif; --USER__fontOverride: readium-font-on; --USER__appearance: readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize: 100.0%; --USER__advancedSettings: readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll: readium-scroll-off;">
	<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

		<title>The Crooked Castle: Carmer and Grit, Book Two</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
	<body id="ch_01" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
			<p class="CN">1.</p>
			<p id="_idParaDest-2" class="CT"><a id="_idTextAnchor001"></a>WHERE THERE’S A WILL, THERE’S A WISP</p>
			<p class="COT">Felix Cassius Tiberius Carmer III spent his days learning about all the things that wanted to kill him. </p>
			<p class="T">There were not as many of these things as there used to be, for which he was thankful, but there were still enough to be getting on with. He learned about redcaps, who kept their namesake hats soaked with the blood of their victims. He learned about sirens, who lured sailors to their doom among jagged rocks with nothing but a song. He learned about kelpies and banshees and ghouls: where to find them (and how to escape when you did), what they looked like (or how they disguised themselves), even what they ate for breakfast (which was usually never anything good). These creatures all had one thing in common, besides their murderous impulses: they were part of the Unseelie fae. And that made them part of Carmer’s world, whether he liked it or not. </p>
			<p class="T">When one’s new best friend was a faerie princess—and a <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">Seelie</em> one at that—it was important to stay on top of one’s magical education.</p>
			<p class="T">It was for the sake of Carmer’s magical education, or so Grit claimed, that he was now ankle deep in stagnant, freezing water in near-total darkness, trying to distinguish the difference between half a dozen floating balls of light.</p>
			<p class="T">“I think a leech just bit me,” Carmer complained. He shook his leg, sending ripples sloshing through the pond. He could have sworn one of the glowing orbs tittered in amusement. </p>
			<p class="T">“Pay attention to the lights,” Grit scolded from somewhere up ahead. He could tell her golden faerie light apart from the others’ easily, though he couldn’t say why. It was as unique to her as a fingerprint was to humans, though it should have been indistinguishable from the others from this far away. </p>
			<p class="T">“I thought I wasn’t supposed to!” Carmer protested. “Or else they’ll . . . ‘enthrall’ me, or whatever it is you called it.” </p>
			<p class="T">“You’ve got to look at them <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">sideways</em>, like I told you,” explained Grit. “Catch a glimpse out of the corner of your eye. That’s all you need. Then <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">focus.</em>” Her light bobbed up and down. </p>
			<p class="T">Carmer tried to do as he was told, but like so many things in the faerie world, “looking sideways” was hardly an exact science—a fact that frustrated him to no end. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath, shivering in the December air. He opened them again, slowly this time, and looked at the reflections in the water below instead of directly out across the pond. Trying to keep his mind blank, he peered through dark lashes and the bits of hair that fell in front of his eyes. And he <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">saw</em>.</p>
			<p class="T">He saw that most of the balls of light had small figures at their centers—faeries, he knew. Only one or two were truly nothing more than swirling orbs of glowing gas and malicious intent—will-o’-the-wisps and jack-o’-lanterns who (in a less controlled scenario) wanted nothing more than to lure him into the depths of the dark water. Carmer smiled to himself; maybe he really <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">was</em> getting better at this sort of thing. He flicked his gaze upward, more confident now that he’d chosen the right ones, and stared into the center of one of the lights. Was there really nothing inside it at all?</p>
			<p class="T">He didn’t think so. He took a few steps closer, just to make sure. His knees bumped against the thin sheets of ice floating on the pond’s surface, but his legs were already so numb from the cold, he barely felt it. The orb glowed brighter, illuminating more of the pond. Carmer could even see a house on the other side of it. Was that the glow of a fire he spotted through the windows? A fire sounded lovely on a night like this. One more step, just for a closer look . . . </p>
			<p class="T">“CARMER.”</p>
			<p class="T">A streak of gold sparks shot across his field of vision, disrupting his view of both the orbs and the house. Carmer stumbled backward and nearly fell, but the muddy bottom of the pond sucked at his boots, reluctant to let such a willing prisoner go. </p>
			<p class="T">“That’s enough, you lot!” Grit darted in and out of the other lights. “Show’s over! Thank you for your time!”</p>
			<p class="T">The lights dispersed with shrugs of tiny shoulders, more than a few curious backward glances, and one or two teasing giggles. Grit stuck her tongue out at the retreating backs of the gigglers while Carmer staggered onto solid ground. The will-o’-the-wisps sank back into the pond, winking out of sight with little gurgles as they submerged themselves in the inky water. Grit kept an eye on them as she flew to Carmer’s side. </p>
			<p class="T">“Congratulations,” she said, hovering at his knee as he sat down. “You’ve just been enthralled.” </p>
			<p class="T">Carmer shook his head vigorously and ran his hands through his hair. His head felt fuzzy, much like the last time he’d fallen under the influence of faerie magic, but he was already starting to feel the true bite of the cold night air. </p>
			<p class="T">“I-I thought I had them,” he said, a round of shivers clacking his teeth together.</p>
			<p class="T">“You did,” agreed Grit. “Until they had you.”</p>
			<p class="T">Carmer shivered harder. “The house wasn’t real,” he guessed.</p>
			<p class="T">Grit shook her head; tufts of frizzy red and gold curls escaped from her messy bun. “And you should have known that.” </p>
			<p class="T">“Well,” said Carmer with a shrug. He tried to wring out the ends of his sodden pants, but his fingers were numb with cold. “You know what they say. P-practice m-makes p-p-perfect.”</p>
			<p class="T">Grit flew right in front of his face. “Hands,” she ordered. </p>
			<p class="T">“I—I’m fine,” Carmer stuttered through white lips. </p>
			<p class="T">“And I’m a giantess,” she said. “Hands. Now.” </p>
			<p class="T">Carmer blew on his fingers a few times before cupping his hands and extending them out to Grit, who promptly stepped inside them. Almost instantly, warmth began to radiate into his frozen fingers. Having a fire faerie for a best friend did have <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">some</em> benefits, after all. Carmer sighed with relief. </p>
			<p class="T">“That’s the best I can do for now,” Grit said, sitting cross-legged in his palms. “Let’s call it a night, shall we?”</p>
			<p class="T">Carmer couldn’t have agreed more.</p>
			<p class="T1"><span class="COT-first-line _idGenCharOverride-1">The next morning </span>dawned bright and clear and cold, though not nearly as chilly as the night before. As Carmer had said would happen, their days were growing warmer as they traveled south for the winter, away from Grit’s home city of Skemantis and the rest of New England. Grit stood on her favorite perch at the very topmost turret of the Moto-Manse, Carmer’s three-story motorized house on wheels, and stretched from the points of her tiny toes all the way to the tips of her fingers, yawning. As usual, she was up much earlier than Carmer—faeries didn’t need to sleep at all, strictly speaking, but with her only traveling companion in dreamland for most of the night, there wasn’t much else to keep her occupied. (Carmer, of course, couldn’t understand why she didn’t use the extra time to study his lessons on the <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">human </em>world, but that was because he was <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">boring</em>, and she was not.)</p>
			<p class="T">Grit lowered her arms, watching the pale sunrise, and rolled her shoulders experimentally. The muscles around her left wing had gotten stiff and sore in the night, and the cold wasn’t helping. She held on to the tip of the turret for support—the wind was quite strong that day—and slowly opened and closed both wings. The brass outline of the metal one glinted in the corner of her eye. Grit wondered if she would ever get used to that.</p>
			<p class="T">The Seelie faerie princess hadn’t always had two wings. She’d been born with only one, and it wasn’t until the engineering prowess of Felix Cassius Tiberius Carmer III, combined with the perfect dose of faerie magic, that she flew for the first time. Her new wing—had it really been only a few short weeks since she’d gotten it?—was a mechanical <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">and</em> a magical marvel. But it didn’t come without its own fair share of problems—like a tendency to literally freeze up in the cold. Grit was learning to use her magic to account for such drawbacks, but it was a process that involved a <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">lot</em> of trial and error (and occasionally setting things on fire).</p>
			<p class="T">Grit squinted into the sunrise, where a floating black spot had suddenly appeared over the horizon. It dipped dangerously close to the tree line in the distance before bobbing unsteadily back up again.</p>
			<p class="T">Grit scurried halfway down the Moto-Manse’s roof before she remembered to fly—that was another thing to get used to—the rest of the way to Carmer’s window. He was still asleep, his black hair tousled every which way, snoring soundly. She was loath to wake him, as she knew he didn’t always sleep as well as he could; the nightmares that plagued him from their last major encounter with Unseelie faeries made sure of that. But a skyward glance showed the black spot getting bigger—and therefore closer. It was teardrop-shaped, and not actually black at all, but striped in bright colors.</p>
			<p class="T">She decided to investigate. She pushed off Carmer’s windowsill with only the slightest twinge of guilt—she would turn <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">right back</em> if anything were amiss, she promised herself—and the moment the wind caught under her wings, she couldn’t help but break into a smile. <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">This </em>was the way good days started—with clear skies and the possibility of adventure sailing straight at you—not by burying your nose in books and beakers and belching engines the way Carmer did. </p>
			<p class="T">Truthfully, the possibility of adventure in question seemed to be having a tough time sailing straight in any direction. As she flew closer, Grit recognized the shape as a balloon. These weren’t as big as the hulking airships the humans sometimes traveled in, and they usually carried only one or two people in a hanging wicker basket. </p>
			<p class="T">In addition to being in obvious distress, this one also seemed to be missing a key element: the basket. A lone figure hung directly from the balloon itself, suspended in the air by nothing but a few ropes and straps.</p>
			<p class="T">Grit hung back, hesitating as she glided closer. She landed in a copse of trees a short way from the road and flitted from treetop to treetop, following the balloon’s progress. Surely, someone else would come driving along and see the balloonist. And there was a town just over the next rise—perhaps they could see the mysterious shape floating on the horizon. <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">They </em>could call for help.</p>
			<p class="T">But a needling voice told her it was still very early, and as untraveled as the country roads they were taking were, the likelihood of anyone else calling for help was slim. Contrary to what Carmer thought, she really <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">did</em> try to pay attention to the human world. Or at least, the practical bits that were <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">worth</em> paying attention to.</p>
			<p class="T">The balloon passed directly overhead, and Grit got her first look at the unfortunate passenger. He was tall, with long legs currently occupied in thrashing about in a panic; gloved hands fiddled helplessly with his harness. He looked down at the ground, which was growing nearer by the second, and then at the countryside around him—and <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">laughed</em>. A small, bemused laugh, to be sure, but a laugh all the same.</p>
			<p class="T">Only a fellow adventurer could find himself in a predicament like that and <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">laugh</em>. And Grit was always game to meet a fellow adventurer. She sprang up from the trees before she could second-guess the impulse and launched herself past the clueless balloonist and straight under the balloon itself.</p>
			<p class="T"><em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">I’m a fire faerie</em>,<em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital"> </em>Grit thought. Surely,<em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital"> </em>she’d heard these things called <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">hot </em>air balloons for a reason. </p>
			<p class="T1"><span class="COT-first-line _idGenCharOverride-1">Carmer dreamed of </span>trains.</p>
			<p class="T">He dreamed of trains spewing smoke into claustrophobic underground tunnels, brakes and whistles and <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">other things</em> shrieking into a dark void. Black vines crept along cold concrete walls. Black iron rails twisted with magic. The very mud beneath his feet became grasping hands, ready to drag him down forever. A three-eyed man with a dripping red conductor’s cap beckoned him forward with a pointy-toothed smile.</p>
			<p class="T">He dreamed of running until his lungs and his legs were on fire and feeling, <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">knowing</em>, that he could never run fast or far enough. The train was coming for him. The Wild Hunt was coming for him, just as it had come for Gideon Sharpe.</p>
			<p class="T">Carmer’s eyes snapped open, the image of a blond boy being thrown into that very train still burning across his vision. He shook his head, forced himself to take deep breaths, and focused on the sound that had woken him.</p>
			<p class="T">It was the sound of something very large crashing into his roof.</p>
			<p class="T">“Grit?!” Carmer called. She had a habit of watching the sunrise from the turret in the mornings, and at five inches tall, she wasn’t exactly squish-proof.</p>
			<p class="T">“Urmngmf” was all he could make out of the reply. </p>
			<p class="T">He jumped out of his bunk and scrambled down the stairs and out the door. The sight that greeted him outside the Moto-Manse was not one he expected.</p>
			<p class="T">There was a balloon on his roof.</p>
			<p class="T">Perhaps more alarmingly, there was a <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">man</em> on his roof. He was fairly certain it was a man, at least, from the look of the khaki-clad limbs sprawled every which way.</p>
			<p class="T">“Um,” said Carmer.</p>
			<p class="T">“I said I’m here!” said Grit, a little more clearly this time, though he could barely hear her. A glowing light switched on somewhere <em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">under</em> the fabric of the balloon, which had caught itself quite dramatically on the topmost turret of the Moto-Manse. </p>
			<p class="T">Carmer scrambled forward, unsure of what to do. The man groaned and pushed himself up onto his elbows, and then, probably realizing he wasn’t actually on the ground yet, plastered himself even more firmly to the roof. One of his boots found the peaked trim of one of the windows.</p>
			<p class="T">“I wouldn’t put your weight on—” </p>
			<p class="T"><em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">That</em>, Carmer thought, just as the decorative molding gave way. The man’s legs swung wildly, and Carmer saw that he was attached to the balloon. The hole where the turret had pierced the fabric was getting bigger, tearing as the balloonist’s weight pulled it. A glowing light—<em class="ITC-Cheltenham-Std-light-ital">Grit’s</em> glowing light—tumbled a few feet down, still trapped underneath the balloon.</p>
			<p class="T">“Grit!” called Carmer.</p>
			<p class="T">“I’m fine!” came the breathless reply. </p>
			<p class="T">He pictured her clinging to the shingles of the roof for dear life, even as the iron in them burned her hands. Iron repelled all things fae. He hoped she’d been wearing her gloves this morning when she decided to go chasing balloons.</p>
			<p class="T">“Me too,” said the man hanging from Carmer’s house. “Thanks for asking!”</p>
			<p class="T">“Wait a minute,” said Carmer, frowning. “I’ll climb up to the attic and pull you inside.”</p>
			<p class="T">But Carmer’s plan never came to fruition. With a great ripping sound, the balloon tore almost all the way, dropping the balloonist down the side of the Moto-Manse until he was only a few feet off the ground. Somewhere underneath the canvas, Grit shrieked, and her light went out.</p>
			<p class="T">The balloonist swung around to face Carmer. He was young—perhaps only a few years older than Carmer—with smooth ebony skin and closely cropped black hair. He smiled, a blinding smile that lit up his face all the way to his eyes, hidden as they were behind thick aviator goggles (now hanging crookedly, of course). He removed the goggles with a flourish and looked down at Carmer.</p>
			<p class="T">“Bell Daisimer,” said the balloonist. “Professional aeronaut, at your service.”</p>
			<p class="T">And then the balloon tore from the roof completely, dropping him into a tangled heap at Carmer’s front door.</p>
	</body>
</html>
2023-09-02 14:41:12 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-09-02 14:41:13 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-09-02 14:41:14 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-09-02 14:41:15 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:18 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:18 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:19 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:41:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:41:22 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-09-02 14:41:42 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-09-02 14:41:43 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-09-02 14:41:43 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@27496086
