2023-02-17 00:40:15 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of increasing and reducing the text size' start
2023-02-17 00:40:15 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-02-17 00:40:57 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-02-17 00:40:57 INFO  - Session id - b58346f4af3924aac718e9389e4c485107eeedac
2023-02-17 00:40:57 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-02-17 00:40:57 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:00 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:01 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 00:41:02 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-02-17 00:41:06 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:06 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-02-17 00:41:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:07 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:08 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:10 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-02-17 00:41:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:11 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:11 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:13 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:14 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000305
2023-02-17 00:41:14 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: European Resistance in the Second World War Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: The Pioneers Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: Amazing Stories Volume 80 Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: Keeping At It Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: The Apache Diaspora Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: Legacy of the Lions Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - bookName: Moon at the Full Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 7
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 00:41:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000305'
2023-02-17 00:41:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 00:41:17 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-02-17 00:41:18 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:41:24 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:41:24 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-02-17 00:41:45 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:41:45 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-02-17 00:41:45 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:42:08 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-02-17 00:42:28 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:42:30 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-02-17 00:42:30 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-02-17 00:42:30 INFO  - randomBookName: True Stories of History and Biography
2023-02-17 00:42:30 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-17 00:42:30 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'True Stories of History and Biography'
2023-02-17 00:42:32 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-17 00:42:36 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-17 00:42:37 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:42:39 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:42:43 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-17 00:42:43 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:42:44 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:42:45 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-02-17 00:42:46 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:42:46 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-02-17 00:42:46 INFO  - Scrolling 7 times on reader epub screen
2023-02-17 00:43:02 INFO  - Step 11 - I save font size as 'fontSize'
2023-02-17 00:43:02 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-02-17 00:43:02 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-02-17 00:43:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 00:43:04 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of True Stories from History and Biography by
Nathaniel Hawthorne</p>

<p id="id00001" style="margin-top: 3em">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no
restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under
the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or
online at http://www.gutenberg.org/license</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 3em">Title: True Stories from History and Biography</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Nathaniel Hawthorne</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: April 2005 [Ebook #15697]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TRUE STORIES FROM HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 5em">True Stories from History and Biography<br />

by Nathaniel Hawthorne<br />

BOSTON:<br />

TICKNOR, REED, AND FIELDS.<br />

MDCCCLI.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00008">Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by NATHANIEL<br />

HAWTHORNE, in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the District of<br />

Massachusetts.<br />
</p>

<h5 id="id00009">CAMBRIDGE:
PRINTED BY BOLLES AND HOUGHTON.</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 5em">                              [Frontispiece]</p>

<p id="id00011" style="margin-top: 5em">Preface<br />

THE WHOLE HISTORY OF GRANDFATHER’S CHAIR<br />

Part I<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

      THE LADY ARBELLA<br />

   Chapter III<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter V<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      THE PINE-TREE SHILLINGS<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      THE INDIAN BIBLE<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

   Chapter X<br />

      THE SUNKEN TREASURE<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

Part II<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      THE OLD-FASHIONED SCHOOL<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      THE REJECTED BLESSING<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      THE PROVINCIAL MUSTER<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      THE ACADIAN EXILES<br />

   Chapter X<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

Part III<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      THE HUTCHINSON MOB<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter V<br />

      THE BOSTON MASSACRE<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      THE TORY’S FAREWELL<br />

   Chapter X<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

      GRANDFATHER’S DREAM<br />

Biographical Stories<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

      BENJAMIN WEST<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      SIR ISAAC NEWTON<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

      SAMUEL JOHNSON<br />

   Chapter V<br />

      SAMUEL JOHNSON—CONTINUED.<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      OLIVER CROMWELL<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

      BENJAMIN FRANKLIN<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      BENJAMIN FRANKLIN—CONTINUED<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      QUEEN CHRISTINA<br />
</p>

<h1 id="id00012" style="margin-top: 5em">PREFACE</h1>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 2em">In writing this ponderous tome, the author’s desire has been to describe
the eminent characters and remarkable events of our annals, in such a form
and style, that the YOUNG might make acquaintance with them of their own
accord. For this purpose, while ostensibly relating the adventures of a
Chair, he has endeavored to keep a distinct and unbroken thread of
authentic history. The Chair is made to pass from one to another of those
personages, of whom he thought it most desirable for the young reader to
have vivid and familiar ideas, and whose lives and actions would best
enable him to give picturesque sketches of the times. On its sturdy oaken
legs, it trudges diligently from one scene to another, and seems always to
thrust itself in the way, with most benign complacency, whenever a
historical personage happens to be looking round for a seat.</p>

<p id="id00014">There is certainly no method, by which the shadowy outlines of departed
men and women can he made to assume the hues of life more effectually,
than by connecting their images with the substantial and homely reality of
a fireside chair. It causes us to feel at once, that these characters of
history had a private and familiar existence, and were not wholly
contained within that cold array of outward action, which we are compelled
to receive as the adequate representation of their lives. If this
impression can be given, much is accomplished.</p>

<p id="id00015">Setting aside Grandfather and his auditors, and excepting the adventures
of the Chair, which form the machinery of the work, nothing in the ensuing
pages can be termed fictitious. The author, it is true, has sometimes
assumed the license of filling up the outline of history with details, for
which he has none but imaginative authority, but which, he hopes, do not
violate nor give a false coloring to the truth. He believes that, in this
respect, his narrative will not be found to convey ideas and impressions,
of which the reader may hereafter find it necessary to purge his mind.</p>

<p id="id00016">The author’s great doubt is, whether he has succeeded in writing a book
which will be readable by the class for whom he intends it. To make a
lively and entertaining narrative for children, with such unmalleable
material as is presented by the sombre, stern, and rigid characteristics
of the Puritans and their descendants, is quite as difficult an attempt,
as to manufacture delicate playthings out of the granite rocks on which
New England is founded.</p>

<h1 id="id00017" style="margin-top: 6em">                 THE WHOLE HISTORY OF GRANDFATHER’S CHAIR</h1>

<h4 id="id00018" style="margin-top: 2em">                         COMPLETE IN THREE PARTS.</h4>

<h1 id="id00019" style="margin-top: 5em">PART I</h1>

<h2 id="id00020" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter I</h2>

<p id="id00021" style="margin-top: 2em">Grandfather had been sitting in his old arm-chair, all that pleasant
afternoon, while the children were pursuing their various sports, far off
or near at hand. Sometimes you would have said, "Grandfather is asleep;"
but still, even when his eyes were closed, his thoughts were with the
young people, playing among the flowers and shrubbery of the garden.</p>

<p id="id00022">He heard the voice of Laurence, who had taken possession of a heap of
decayed branches which the gardener had lopped from the fruit trees, and
was building a little hut for his cousin Clara and himself. He heard
Clara’s gladsome voice, too, as she weeded and watered the flower-bed
which had been given her for her own. He could have counted every footstep
that Charley took, as he trundled his wheelbarrow along the gravel walk.
And though Grandfather was old and gray-haired, yet his heart leaped with
joy whenever little Alice came fluttering, like a butterfly, into the
room. She had made each of the children her playmate in turn, and now made
Grandfather her playmate too, and thought him the merriest of them all.</p>

<p id="id00023">At last the children grew weary of their sports; because a summer
afternoon is like a long lifetime to the young. So they came into the room
together, and clustered round Grandfather’s great chair. Little Alice, who
was hardly five years old, took the privilege of the youngest, and climbed
his knee. It was a pleasant thing to behold that fair and golden-haired
child in the lap of the old man, and to think that, different as they
were, the hearts of both could be gladdened with the same joys.</p>

<p id="id00024">"Grandfather," said little Alice, laying her head back upon his arm, "I am
very tired now. You must tell me a story to make me go to sleep."</p>

<p id="id00025">"That is not what story-tellers like," answered Grandfather, smiling.<br />

"They are better satisfied when they can keep their auditors awake."<br />
</p>

<p id="id00026">"But here are Laurence, and Charley, and I," cried cousin Clara, who was
twice as old as little Alice. "We will all three keep wide awake. And
pray, Grandfather, tell us a story about this strange-looking old chair."</p>

<p id="id00027">Now, the chair in which Grandfather sat was made of oak, which had grown
dark with age, but had been rubbed and polished till it shone as bright as
mahogany. It was very large and heavy, and had a back that rose high above
Grandfather’s white head. This back was curiously carved in open work, so
as to represent flowers and foliage and other devices; which the children
had often gazed at, but could never understand what they meant. On the
very tiptop of the chair, over the head of Grandfather himself, was a
likeness of a lion’s head, which had such a savage grin that you would
almost expect to hear it growl and snarl.</p>

<p id="id00028">The children had seen Grandfather sitting in this chair ever since they
could remember any thing. Perhaps the younger of them supposed that he and
the chair had come into the world together, and that both had always been
as old as they were now. At this time, however, it happened to be the
fashion for ladies to adorn their drawing-rooms with the oldest and oddest
chairs that could be found. It seemed to cousin Clara that if these ladies
could have seen Grandfather’s old chair, they would have thought it worth
all the rest together. She wondered if it were not even older than
Grandfather himself, and longed to know all about its history.</p>

<p id="id00029">"Do, Grandfather, talk to us about this chair," she repeated.</p>

<p id="id00030">"Well, child," said Grandfather, patting Clara’s cheek, "I can tell you a
great many stories of my chair. Perhaps your cousin Laurence would like to
hear them too. They would teach him something about the history and
distinguished people of his country, which he has never read in any of his
school-books."</p>

<p id="id00031">Cousin Laurence was a boy of twelve, a bright scholar, in whom an early
thoughtfulness and sensibility began to show themselves. His young fancy
kindled at the idea of knowing all the adventures of this venerable chair.
He looked eagerly in Grandfather’s face; and even Charley, a bold, brisk,
restless little fellow of nine, sat himself down on the carpet, and
resolved to be quiet for at least ten minutes, should the story last so
long.</p>

<p id="id00032">Meantime, little Alice was already asleep; so Grandfather, being much
pleased with such an attentive audience, began to talk about matters that
had happened long ago.</p>

<h2 id="id00033" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter II</h2>

<p id="id00034" style="margin-top: 2em">But, before relating the adventures of the chair, Grandfather found it
necessary to speak of the circumstances that caused the first settlement
of New England. For it will soon be perceived that the story of this
remarkable chair cannot be told without telling a great deal of the
history of the country.</p>

<p id="id00035">So, Grandfather talked about the Puritans, as those persons were called
who thought it sinful to practise the religious forms and ceremonies which
the Church of England had borrowed from the Roman Catholics. These
Puritans suffered so much persecution in England that, in 1607, many of
them went over to Holland, and lived ten or twelve years at Amsterdam and
Leyden. But they feared that, if they continued there much longer, they
should cease to be English, and should adopt all the manners and ideas and
feelings of the Dutch. For this and other reasons, in the year 1620, they
embarked on board of the ship Mayflower, and crossed the ocean to the
shores of Cape Cod. There they made a settlement, and called it Plymouth;
which, though now a part of Massachusetts, was for a long time a colony by
itself. And thus was formed the earliest settlement of the Puritans in
America.</p>

<p id="id00036">Meantime, those of the Puritans who remained in England continued to
suffer grievous persecution on account of their religious opinions. They
began to look around them for some spot where they might worship God, not
as the king and bishops thought fit, but according to the dictates of
their own consciences. When their brethren had gone from Holland to
America, they bethought themselves that they likewise might find refuge
from persecution there. Several gentlemen among them purchased a tract of
country on the coast of Massachusetts Bay, and obtained a charter from
King Charles, which authorized them to make laws for the settlers. In the
year 1628, they sent over a few people, with John Endicott at their head,
to commence a plantation at Salem. Peter Palfrey, Roger Conant, and one or
two more, had built houses there in 1626, and may be considered as the
first settlers of that ancient town. Many other Puritans prepared to
follow Endicott.</p>

<p id="id00037">"And now we come to the chair, my dear children," said Grandfather. "This
chair is supposed to have been made of an oak tree which grew in the park
of the English earl of Lincoln, between two and three centuries ago. In
its younger days it used, probably, to stand in the hall of the earl’s
castle. Do not you see the coat of arms of the family of Lincoln, carved
in the open work of the back? But when his daughter, the Lady Arbella, was
married to a certain Mr. Johnson, the earl gave her this valuable chair."</p>

<p id="id00038">"Who was Mr. Johnson?" inquired Clara.</p>

<p id="id00039">"He was a gentleman of great wealth, who agreed with the Puritans in their
religious opinions," answered Grandfather. "And as his belief was the same
as theirs, he resolved that he would live and die with them. Accordingly,
in the month of April, 1630, he left his pleasant abode and all his
comforts in England, and embarked with the Lady Arbella, on board of a
ship bound for America."</p>

<p id="id00040">As Grandfather was frequently impeded by the questions and observations of
his young auditors, we deem it advisable to omit all such prattle as is
not essential to the story. We have taken some pains to find out exactly
what Grandfather said, and here offer to our readers, as nearly as
possible in his own words, the story of</p>

<h3 id="id00041" style="margin-top: 3em">THE LADY ARBELLA</h3>

<p id="id00042" style="margin-top: 2em">The ship in which Mr. Johnson and his lady embarked, taking Grandfather’s
chair along with them, was called the Arbella, in honor of the lady
herself. A fleet of ten or twelve vessels, with many hundred passengers,
left England about the same time; for a multitude of people, who were
discontented with the king’s government and oppressed by the bishops, were
flocking over to the new world. One of the vessels in the fleet was that
same Mayflower which had carried the Puritan pilgrims to Plymouth. And
now, my children, I would have you fancy yourselves in the cabin of the
good ship Arbella; because if you could behold the passengers aboard that
vessel, you would feel what a blessing and honor it was for New England to
have such settlers. They were the best men and women of their day.</p>

<p id="id00043">Among the passengers was John Winthrop, who had sold the estate of his
forefathers, and was going to prepare a new home for his wife and children
in the wilderness. He had the king’s charter in his keeping, and was
appointed the first Governor of Massachusetts. Imagine him a person of
grave and benevolent aspect, dressed in a black velvet suit, with a broad
ruff around his neck and a peaked beard upon his chin. There was likewise
a minister of the Gospel, whom the English bishops had forbidden to
preach, but who knew that he should have liberty both to preach and pray
in the forests of America. He wore a black cloak, called a Geneva cloak,
and had a black velvet cap, fitting close to his head, as was the fashion
of almost all the Puritan clergymen. In their company came Sir Richard
Saltonstall, who had been one of the five first projectors of the new
colony. He soon returned to his native country. But his descendants still
remain in New England; and the good old family name is as much respected
in our days as it was in those of Sir Richard.</p>

<p id="id00044">Not only these, but several other men of wealth and pious ministers, were
in the cabin of the Arbella. One had banished himself for ever from the
old hall where his ancestors had lived for hundreds of years. Another had
left his quiet parsonage, in a country town of England. Others had come
from the universities of Oxford or Cambridge, where they had gained great
fame for their learning. And here they all were, tossing upon the
uncertain and dangerous sea, and bound for a home that was more dangerous
than even the sea itself. In the cabin, likewise, sat the Lady Arbella in
her chair, with a gentle and sweet expression on her face, but looking too
pale and feeble to endure the hardships of the wilderness.</p>

<p id="id00045">Every morning and evening the Lady Arbella gave up her great chair to one
of the ministers, who took his place in it and read passages from the
Bible to his companions. And thus, with prayers and pious conversation,
and frequent singing of hymns, which the breezes caught from their lips
and scattered far over the desolate waves, they prosecuted their voyage,
and sailed into the harbor of Salem in the month of June.</p>

<p id="id00046">At that period there were but six or eight dwellings in the town; and
these were miserable hovels, with roofs of straw and wooden chimneys. The
passengers in the fleet either built huts with bark and branches of trees,
or erected tents of cloth till they could provide themselves with better
shelter. Many of them went to form a settlement at Charlestown. It was
thought fit that the Lady Arbella should tarry in Salem for a time; she
was probably received as a guest into the family of John Endicott. He was
the chief person in the plantation, and had the only comfortable house
which the new comers had beheld since they left England. So now, children,
you must imagine Grandfather’s chair in the midst of a new scene.</p>

<p id="id00047">Suppose it a hot summer’s day, and the lattice-windows of a chamber in Mr.
Endicott’s house thrown wide open. The Lady Arbella, looking paler than
she did on shipboard, is sitting in her chair, and thinking mournfully of
far-off England. She rises and goes to the window. There, amid patches of
garden ground and cornfield, she sees the few wretched hovels of the
settlers, with the still ruder wigwams and cloth tents of the passengers
who had arrived in the same fleet with herself. Far and near stretches the
dismal forest of pine trees, which throw their black shadows over the
whole land, and likewise over the heart of this poor lady.</p>

<p id="id00048">All the inhabitants of the little village are busy. One is clearing a spot
on the verge of the forest for his homestead; another is hewing the trunk
of a fallen pine tree, in order to build himself a dwelling; a third is
hoeing in his field of Indian corn. Here comes a huntsman out of the
woods, dragging a bear which he has shot, and shouting to the neighbors to
lend him a hand. There goes a man to the sea-shore, with a spade and a
bucket, to dig a mess of clams, which were a principal article of food
with the first settlers. Scattered here and there are two or three dusky
figures, clad in mantles of fur, with ornaments of bone hanging from their
ears, and the feathers of wild birds in their coal black hair. They have
belts of shell-work slung across their shoulders, and are armed with bows
and arrows and flint-headed spears. These are an Indian Sagamore and his
attendants, who have come to gaze at the labors of the white men. And now
rises a cry, that a pack of wolves have seized a young calf in the
pasture; and every man snatches up his gun or pike, and runs in chase of
the marauding beasts.</p>

<p id="id00049">Poor Lady Arbella watches all these sights, and feels that this new world
is fit only for rough and hardy people. None should be here but those who
can struggle with wild beasts and wild men, and can toil in the heat or
cold, and can keep their hearts firm against all difficulties and dangers.
But she is not one of these. Her gentle and timid spirit sinks within her;
and turning away from the window she sits down in the great chair, and
wonders thereabouts in the wilderness her friends will dig her grave.</p>

<p id="id00050">Mr. Johnson had gone, with Governor Winthrop and most of the other
passengers, to Boston, where he intended to build a house for Lady Arbella
and himself. Boston was then covered with wild woods, and had fewer
inhabitants even than Salem. During her husband’s absence, poor Lady
Arbella felt herself growing ill, and was hardly able to stir from the
great chair. Whenever John Endicott noticed her despondency, he doubtless
addressed her with words of comfort. "Cheer up, my good lady!" he would
say. "In a little time, you will love this rude life of the wilderness as
I do." But Endicott’s heart was as bold and resolute as iron, and he could
not understand why a woman’s heart should not be of iron too.</p>

<p id="id00051">Still, however, he spoke kindly to the lady, and then hastened forth to
till his corn-field and set out fruit trees, or to bargain with the
Indians for furs, or perchance to oversee the building of a fort. Also
being a magistrate, he had often to punish some idler or evil-doer, by
ordering him to be set in the stocks or scourged at the whipping-post.
Often, too, as was the custom of the times, he and Mr. Higginson, the
minister of Salem, held long religious talks together. Thus John Endicott
was a man of multifarious business, and had no time to look back
regretfully to his native land. He felt himself fit for the new world, and
for the work that he had to do, and set himself resolutely to accomplish
it.</p>

<p id="id00052">What a contrast, my dear children, between this bold, rough, active man,
and the gentle Lady Arbella, who was fading away, like a pale English
flower, in the shadow of the forest! And now the great chair was often
empty, because Lady Arbella grew too weak to arise from bed.</p>

<p id="id00053">Meantime, her husband had pitched upon a spot for their new home. He
returned from Boston to Salem, travelling through the woods on foot, and
leaning on his pilgrim’s staff. His heart yearned within him; for he was
eager to tell his wife of the new home which he had chosen. But when he
beheld her pale and hollow cheek, and found how her strength was wasted,
he must have known that her appointed home was in a better land. Happy for
him then,—happy both for him and her,—if they remembered that there was a
path to heaven, as well from this heathen wilderness as from the Christian
land whence they had come. And so, in one short month from her arrival,
the gentle Lady Arbella faded away and died. They dug a grave for her in
the new soil, where the roots of the pine trees impeded their spades; and
when her bones had rested there nearly two hundred years, and a city had
sprung up around them, a church of stone was built upon the spot.</p>

<p id="id00054" style="margin-top: 3em">Charley, almost at the commencement of the foregoing narrative, had
galloped away with a prodigious clatter, upon Grandfather’s stick, and was
not yet returned. So large a boy should have been ashamed to ride upon a
stick. But Laurence and Clara had listened attentively, and were affected
by this true story of the gentle lady, who had come so far to die so soon.
Grandfather had supposed that little Alice was asleep, but, towards the
close of the story, happening to look down upon her, he saw that her blue
eyes were wide open, and fixed earnestly upon his face. The tears had
gathered in them, like dew upon a delicate flower; but when Grandfather
ceased to speak, the sunshine of her smile broke forth again.</p>

<p id="id00055">"O, the lady must have been so glad to get to heaven!" exclaimed little<br />

Alice.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00056">"Grandfather, what became of Mr. Johnson?" asked Clara.</p>

<p id="id00057">"His heart appears to have been quite broken," answered Grandfather; "for
he died at Boston within a month after the death of his wife. He was
buried in the very same tract of ground, where he had intended to build a
dwelling for Lady Arbella and himself. Where their house would have stood
there was his grave.</p>

<p id="id00058">"I never heard any thing so melancholy!" said Clara.</p>

<p id="id00059">"The people loved and respected Mr. Johnson so much," continued
Grandfather, "that it was the last request of many of them, when they
died, that they might be buried as near as possible to this good man’s
grave. And so the field became the first burial-ground in Boston. When you
pass through Tremont street, along by King’s Chapel, you see a
burial-ground, containing many old grave-stones and monuments. That was
Mr. Johnson’s field."</p>

<p id="id00060">"How sad is the thought," observed Clara, "that one of the first things
which the settlers had to do, when they came to the new world, was to set
apart a burial-ground!"</p>

<p id="id00061">"Perhaps," said Laurence, "if they had found no need of burial-grounds
here, they would have been glad, after a few years, to go back to
England."</p>

<p id="id00062">Grandfather looked at Laurence, to discover whether he knew how profound
and true a thing he had said.</p>

<h2 id="id00063" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter III</h2>

<p id="id00064" style="margin-top: 2em">Not long after Grandfather had told the story of his great chair, there
chanced to be a rainy day. Our friend Charley, after disturbing the
household with beat of drum and riotous shouts, races up and down the
staircase, overturning of chairs, and much other uproar, began to feel the
quiet and confinement within doors intolerable. But as the rain came down
in a flood, the little fellow was hopelessly a prisoner, and now stood
with sullen aspect at a window, wondering whether the sun itself were not
extinguished by so much moisture in the sky.</p>

<p id="id00065">Charley had already exhausted the less eager activity of the other
children; and they had betaken themselves to occupations that did not
admit of his companionship. Laurence sat in a recess near the book-case,
reading, not for the first time, the Midsummer Night’s Dream. Clara was
making a rosary of beads for a little figure of a Sister of Charity, who
was to attend the Bunker Hill Fair, and lend her aid in erecting the
Monument. Little Alice sat on Grandfather’s foot-stool, with a
picture-book in her hand; and, for every picture, the child was telling
Grandfather a story. She did not read from the book, (for little Alice had
not much skill in reading,) but told the story out of her own heart and
mind.</p>

<p id="id00066">Charley was too big a boy, of course, to care any thing about little
Alice’s stories, although Grandfather appeared to listen with a good deal
of interest. Often, in a young child’s ideas and fancies, there is
something which it requires the thought of a lifetime to comprehend. But
Charley was of opinion, that if a story must be told, it had better be
told by Grandfather, than little Alice.</p>

<p id="id00067">"Grandfather, I want to hear more about your chair," said he.</p>

<p id="id00068">Now Grandfather remembered that Charley had galloped away upon a stick, in
the midst of the narrative of poor Lady Arbella, and I know not whether he
would have thought it worth while to tell another story, merely to gratify
such an inattentive auditor as Charley. But Laurence laid down his book
and seconded the request. Clara drew her chair nearer to Grandfather, and
little Alice immediately closed her picture-book, and looked up into his
face. Grandfather had not the heart to disappoint them.</p>

<p id="id00069">He mentioned several persons who had a share in the settlement of our
country, and who would be well worthy of remembrance, if we could find
room to tell about them all. Among the rest, Grandfather spoke of the
famous Hugh Peters, a minister of the gospel, who did much good to the
inhabitants of Salem. Mr. Peters afterwards went back to England, and was
chaplain to Oliver Cromwell; but Grandfather did not tell the children
what became of this upright and zealous man, at last. In fact, his
auditors were growing impatient to hear more about the history of the
chair.</p>

<p id="id00070">"After the death of Mr. Johnson," said he, "Grandfather’s chair came into
the possession of Roger Williams. He was a clergyman, who arrived at
Salem, and settled there in 1631. Doubtless the good man has spent many a
studious hour in this old chair, either penning a sermon, or reading some
abstruse book of theology, till midnight came upon him unawares. At that
period, as there were few lamps or candles to be had, people used to read
or work by the light of pitchpine torches. These supplied the place of the
"midnight oil," to the learned men of New England."</p>

<p id="id00071">Grandfather went on to talk about Roger Williams, and told the children
several particulars, which we have not room to repeat. One incident,
however, which was connected with his life, must be related, because it
will give the reader an idea of the opinions and feelings of the first
settlers of New England. It was as follows:</p>

<h3 id="id00072" style="margin-top: 3em">THE RED CROSS</h3>

<p id="id00073" style="margin-top: 2em">While Roger Williams sat in Grandfather’s chair, at his humble residence
in Salem, John Endicott would often come to visit him. As the clergy had
great influence in temporal concerns, the minister and magistrate would
talk over the occurrences of the day, and consult how the people might be
governed according to scriptural laws.</p>

<p id="id00074">One thing especially troubled them both. In the old national banner of
England, under which her soldiers have fought for hundreds of years, there
is a Red Cross, which has been there ever since the days when England was
in subjection to the Pope. The Cross, though a holy symbol, was abhorred
by the Puritans, because they considered it a relic of Popish idolatry.
Now, whenever the train-band of Salem was mustered, the soldiers, with
Endicott at their head, had no other flag to march under than this same
old papistical banner of England, with the Red Cross in the midst of it.
The banner of the Red Cross, likewise, was flying on the walls of the fort
of Salem; and a similar one was displayed in Boston harbor, from the
fortress on Castle Island.</p>

<p id="id00075">"I profess, brother Williams," Captain Endicott would say, after they had
been talking of this matter, "it distresses a Christian man’s heart, to
see this idolatrous Cross flying over our heads. A stranger beholding it,
would think that we had undergone all our hardships and dangers, by sea
and in the wilderness, only to get new dominions for the Pope of Rome."</p>

<p id="id00076">"Truly, good Mr. Endicott," Roger Williams would answer, "you speak as an
honest man and Protestant Christian should. For mine own part, were it my
business to draw a sword, I should reckon it sinful to fight under such a
banner. Neither can I, in my pulpit, ask the blessing of Heaven upon it."</p>

<p id="id00077">Such, probably, was the way in which Roger Williams and John Endicott used
to talk about the banner of the Red Cross. Endicott, who was a prompt and
resolute man, soon determined that Massachusetts, if she could not have a
banner of her own, should at least be delivered from that of the Pope of
Rome.</p>

<p id="id00078">Not long afterwards there was a military muster at Salem. Every
able-bodied man, in the town and neighborhood, was there. All were well
armed, with steel caps upon their heads, plates of iron upon their breasts
and at their backs, and gorgets of steel around their necks. When the sun
shone upon these ranks of iron-clad men, they flashed and blazed with a
splendor that bedazzled the wild Indians, who had come out of the woods to
gaze at them. The soldiers had long pikes, swords, and muskets, which were
fired with matches, and were almost as heavy as a small cannon.</p>

<p id="id00079">These men had mostly a stern and rigid aspect. To judge by their looks,
you might have supposed that there was as much iron in their hearts, as
there was upon their heads and breasts. They were all devoted Puritans,
and of the same temper as those with whom Oliver Cromwell afterwards
overthrew the throne of England. They hated all the relics of Popish
superstition as much as Endicott himself; and yet, over their heads, was
displayed the banner of the Red Cross.</p>

<p id="id00080">Endicott was the captain of the company. While the soldiers were expecting
his orders to begin their exercise, they saw him take the banner in one
hand, holding his drawn sword in the other. Probably he addressed them in
a speech, and explained how horrible a thing it was, that men, who had
fled from Popish idolatry into the wilderness, should be compelled to
fight under its symbols here. Perhaps he concluded his address somewhat in
the following style.</p>

<p id="id00081">"And now, fellow soldiers, you see this old banner of England. Some of
you, I doubt not, may think it treason for a man to lay violent hands upon
it. But whether or no it be treason to man, I have good assurance in my
conscience that it is no treason to God. Wherefore I have resolved that we
will rather be God’s soldiers, than soldiers of the Pope of Rome; and in
that mind I now cut the Papal Cross out of this banner."</p>

<p id="id00082">And so he did. And thus, in a province belonging to the crown of England,
a captain was found bold enough to deface the King’s banner with his
sword.</p>

<p id="id00083">When Winthrop, and the other wise men of Massachusetts, heard of it, they
were disquieted, being afraid that Endicott’s act would bring great
trouble upon himself and them. An account of the matter was carried to
King Charles; but he was then so much engrossed by dissensions with his
people, that he had no leisure to punish the offender. In other times, it
might have cost Endicott his life, and Massachusetts her charter.</p>

<p id="id00084" style="margin-top: 3em">"I should like to know, Grandfather," said Laurence, when the story was
ended, "whether, when Endicott cut the Red Cross out of the banner, he
meant to imply that Massachusetts was independent of England?"</p>

<p id="id00085">"A sense of the independence of his adopted country, must have been in
that bold man’s heart," answered Grandfather; "but I doubt whether he had
given the matter much consideration, except in its religious bearing.
However, it was a very remarkable affair, and a very strong expression of
Puritan character."</p>

<p id="id00086">Grandfather proceeded to speak further of Roger Williams, and of other
persons who sat in the great chair, as will be seen in the following
chapter.</p>

<h2 id="id00087" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter IV</h2>

<p id="id00088" style="margin-top: 2em">"Roger Williams," said Grandfather, "did not keep possession of the chair
a great while. His opinions of civil and religious matters differed, in
many respects, from those of the rulers and clergymen of Massachusetts.
Now the wise men of those days believed, that the country could not be
safe, unless all the inhabitants thought and felt alike."</p>

<p id="id00089">"Does any body believe so in our days Grandfather?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00090">"Possibly there are some who believe it," said Grandfather; "but they have
not so much power to act upon their belief, as the magistrates and
ministers had, in the days of Roger Williams. They had the power to
deprive this good man of his home, and to send him out from the midst of
them, in search of a new place of rest. He was banished in 1634, and went
first to Plymouth colony; but as the people there held the same opinions
as those of Massachusetts, he was not suffered to remain among them.
However, the wilderness was wide enough; so Roger Williams took his staff
and travelled into the forest, and made treaties with the Indians, and
began a plantation which he called Providence."</p>

<p id="id00091">"I have been to Providence on the railroad," said Charley. "It is but a
two hours’ ride."</p>

<p id="id00092">"Yes, Charley," replied Grandfather; "but when Roger Williams travelled
thither, over hills and valleys, and through the tangled woods, and across
swamps and streams, it was a journey of several days. Well; his little
plantation is now grown to be a populous city; and the inhabitants have a
great veneration for Roger Williams. His name is familiar in the mouths of
all because they see it on their bank bills. How it would have perplexed
this good clergyman, if he had been told that he should give his name to
the ROGER WILLIAMS BANK!"</p>

<p id="id00093">"When he was driven from Massachusetts," said Laurence, "and began his
journey into the woods, he must have felt as if he were burying himself
forever from the sight and knowledge of men. Yet the whole country has now
heard of him, and will remember him forever."</p>

<p id="id00094">"Yes," answered Grandfather, "it often happens, that the outcasts of one
generation are those, who are reverenced as the wisest and best of men by
the next. The securest fame is that which comes after a man’s death. But
let us return to our story. When Roger Williams was banished, he appears
to have given the chair to Mrs. Anne Hutchinson. At all events it was in
her possession in 1637. She was a very sharp-witted and well-instructed
lady, and was so conscious of her own wisdom and abilities, that she
thought it a pity that the world should not have the benefit of them. She
therefore used to hold lectures in Boston, once or twice a week, at which
most of the women attended. Mrs. Hutchinson presided at these meetings,
sitting, with great state and dignity, in Grandfather’s chair."</p>

<p id="id00095">"Grandfather, was it positively this very chair?" demanded Clara, laying
her hand upon its carved elbow.</p>

<p id="id00096">"Why not, my dear Clara?" said Grandfather. "Well; Mrs. Hutchinson’s
lectures soon caused a great disturbance; for the ministers of Boston did
not think it safe and proper, that a woman should publicly instruct the
people in religious doctrines. Moreover, she made the matter worse, by
declaring that the Rev. Mr. Cotton was the only sincerely pious and holy
clergyman in New England. Now the clergy of those days had quite as much
share in the government of the country, though indirectly, as the
magistrates themselves; so you may imagine what a host of powerful enemies
were raised up against Mrs. Hutchinson. A synod was convened; that is to
say, an assemblage of all the ministers in Massachusetts. They declared
that there were eighty-two erroneous opinions on religious subjects,
diffused among the people, and that Mrs. Hutchinson’s opinions were of the
number."</p>

<p id="id00097">"If they had eighty-two wrong opinions," observed Charley, "I don’t see
how they could have any right ones."</p>

<p id="id00098">"Mrs. Hutchinson had many zealous friends and converts," continued
Grandfather. "She was favored by young Henry Vane, who had come over from
England a year or two before, and had since been chosen governor of the
colony, at the age of twenty-four. But Winthrop, and most of the other
leading men, as well as the ministers, felt an abhorrence of her
doctrines. Thus two opposite parties were formed; and so fierce were the
dissensions, that it was feared the consequence would be civil war and
bloodshed. But Winthrop and the ministers being the most powerful, they
disarmed and imprisoned Mrs. Hutchinson’s adherents. She, like Roger
Williams, was banished."</p>

<p id="id00099">"Dear Grandfather, did they drive the poor woman into the woods?"
exclaimed little Alice, who contrived to feel a human interest even in
these discords of polemic divinity.</p>

<p id="id00100">"They did, my darling," replied Grandfather; "and the end of her life was
so sad, you must not hear it. At her departure, it appears from the best
authorities, that she gave the great chair to her friend, Henry Vane. He
was a young man of wonderful talents and great learning, who had imbibed
the religious opinions of the Puritans, and left England with the
intention of spending his life in Massachusetts. The people chose him
governor; but the controversy about Mrs. Hutchinson, and other troubles,
caused him to leave the country in 1637. You may read the subsequent
events of his life in the History of England."</p>

<p id="id00101">"Yes, Grandfather," cried Laurence; "and we may read them better in Mr.
Upham’s biography of Vane. And what a beautiful death he died, long
afterwards! beautiful, though it was on a scaffold."</p>

<p id="id00102">"Many of the most beautiful deaths have been there," said Grandfather.
"The enemies of a great and good man can in no other way make him so
glorious, as by giving him the crown of martyrdom."</p>

<p id="id00103">In order that the children might fully understand the all-important
history of the chair, Grandfather now thought fit to speak of the progress
that was made in settling several colonies. The settlement of Plymouth, in
1620, has already been mentioned. In 1635, Mr. Hooker and Mr. Stone, two
ministers, went on foot from Massachusetts to Connecticut, through the
pathless woods, taking their whole congregation along with them. They
founded the town of Hartford. In 1638, Mr. Davenport, a very celebrated
minister, went, with other people, and began a plantation at New Haven. In
the same year, some persons who had been persecuted in Massachusetts, went
to the Isle of Rhodes, since called Rhode Island, and settled there. About
this time, also, many settlers had gone to Maine, and were living without
any regular government. There were likewise settlers near Piscataqua
River, in the region which is now called New Hampshire.</p>

<p id="id00104">Thus, at various points along the coast of New England, there were
communities of Englishmen. Though these communities were independent of
one another, yet they had a common dependence upon England; and, at so
vast a distance from their native home, the inhabitants must all have felt
like brethren. They were fitted to become one united people, at a future
period. Perhaps their feelings of brotherhood were the stronger, because
different nations had formed settlements to the north and to the south. In
Canada and Nova Scotia were colonies of French. On the banks of the Hudson
River was a colony of Dutch, who had taken possession of that region many
years before, and called it New Netherlands.</p>

<p id="id00105">Grandfather, for aught I know, might have gone on to speak of Maryland and
Virginia; for the good old gentleman really seemed to suppose, that the
whole surface of the United States was not too broad a foundation to place
the four legs of his chair upon. But, happening to glance at Charley, he
perceived that this naughty boy was growing impatient, and meditating
another ride upon a stick. So here, for the present, Grandfather suspended
the history of his chair.</p>

<h2 id="id00106" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter V</h2>

<p id="id00107" style="margin-top: 2em">The Children had now learned to look upon the chair with an interest,
which was almost the same as if it were a conscious being, and could
remember the many famous people whom it had held within its arms.</p>

<p id="id00108">Even Charley, lawless as he was, seemed to feel that this venerable chair
must not be clambered upon nor overturned, although he had no scruple in
taking such liberties with every other chair in the house. Clara treated
it with still greater reverence, often taking occasion to smooth its
cushion, and to brush the dust from the carved flowers and grotesque
figures of its oaken back and arms. Laurence would sometimes sit a whole
hour, especially at twilight, gazing at the chair, and, by the spell of
his imaginations, summoning up its ancient occupants to appear in it
again.</p>

<p id="id00109">Little Alice evidently employed herself in a similar way; for once, when
Grandfather had gone abroad, the child was heard talking with the gentle
Lady Arbella, as if she were still sitting in the chair. So sweet a child
as little Alice may fitly talk with angels, such as the Lady Arbella had
long since become.</p>

<p id="id00110">Grandfather was soon importuned for more stories about the chair. He had
no difficulty in relating them; for it really seemed as if every person,
noted in our early history, had, on some occasion or other, found repose
within its comfortable arms. If Grandfather took pride in any thing, it
was in being the possessor of such an honorable and historic elbow chair.</p>

<p id="id00111">"I know not precisely who next got possession of the chair, after Governor
Vane went back to England," said Grandfather. "But there is reason to
believe that President Dunster sat in it, when he held the first
commencement at Harvard College. You have often heard, children, how
careful our forefathers were, to give their young people a good education.
They had scarcely cut down trees enough to make room for their own
dwellings, before they began to think of establishing a college. Their
principal object was, to rear up pious and learned ministers; and hence
old writers call Harvard College a school of the prophets."</p>

<p id="id00112">"Is the college a school of the prophets now?" asked Charley.</p>

<p id="id00113">"It is a long while since I took my degree, Charley. You must ask some of
the recent graduates," answered Grandfather. "As I was telling you,
President Dunster sat in Grandfather’s chair in 1642, when he conferred
the degree of bachelor of arts on nine young men. They were the first in
America, who had received that honor. And now, my dear auditors, I must
confess that there are contradictory statements and some uncertainty about
the adventures of the chair, for a period of almost ten years. Some say
that it was occupied by your own ancestor, William Hawthorne, first
Speaker of the House of Representatives. I have nearly satisfied myself,
however, that, during most of this questionable period, it was literally
the Chair of State. It gives me much pleasure to imagine, that several
successive governors of Massachusetts sat in it at the council board."</p>

<p id="id00114">"But, Grandfather," interposed Charley, who was a matter-of-fact little
person, "what reason have you to imagine so?"</p>

<p id="id00115">"Pray do imagine it, Grandfather," said Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00116">"With Charley’s permission, I will," replied Grandfather, smiling. "Let us
consider it settled, therefore, that Winthrop, Bellingham, Dudley, and
Endicott, each of them, when chosen governor, took his seat in our great
chair on election day. In this chair, likewise, did those excellent
governors preside, while holding consultations with the chief counsellors
of the province, who were styled Assistants. The governor sat in this
chair, too, whenever messages were brought to him from the chamber of
Representatives."</p>

<p id="id00117">And here Grandfather took occasion to talk, rather tediously, about the
nature and forms of government that established themselves, almost
spontaneously, in Massachusetts and the other New England colonies.
Democracies were the natural growth of the new world. As to Massachusetts,
it was at first intended that the colony should be governed by a council
in London. But, in a little while, the people had the whole power in their
own hands, and chose annually the governor, the counsellors, and the
representatives. The people of old England had never enjoyed any thing
like the liberties and privileges, which the settlers of New England now
possessed. And they did not adopt these modes of government after long
study, but in simplicity, as if there were no other way for people to be
ruled.</p>

<p id="id00118">"But, Laurence," continued Grandfather, "when you want instruction on
these points, you must seek it in Mr. Bancroft’s History. I am merely
telling the history of a chair. To proceed. The period during which the
governors sat in our chair, was not very full of striking incidents. The
province was now established on a secure foundation; but it did not
increase so rapidly as at first, because the Puritans were no longer
driven from England by persecution. However, there was still a quiet and
natural growth. The legislature incorporated towns, and made new purchases
of lands from the Indians. A very memorable event took place in 1643. The
colonies of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut, and New Haven, formed a
union, for the purpose of assisting each other in difficulties, and for
mutual defence against their enemies. They called themselves the United
Colonies of New England."</p>

<p id="id00119">"Were they under a government like that of the United States?" inquired<br />

Laurence.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00120">"No," replied Grandfather, "the different colonies did not compose one
nation together; it was merely a confederacy among the governments. It
somewhat resembled the league of the Amphictyons, which you remember in
Grecian history. But to return to our chair. In 1644 it was highly
honored; for Governor Endicott sat in it, when he gave audience to an
ambassador from the French governor of Acadie, or Nova Scotia. A treaty of
peace, between Massachusetts and the French colony, was then signed."</p>

<p id="id00121">"Did England allow Massachusetts to make war and peace with foreign
countries?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00122">"Massachusetts, and the whole of New England, was then almost independent
of the mother country," said Grandfather. "There was now a civil war in
England; and the king, as you may well suppose, had his hands full at
home, and could pay but little attention to these remote colonies. When
the Parliament got the power into their hands, they likewise had enough to
do in keeping down the Cavaliers. Thus New England, like a young and hardy
lad, whose father and mother neglect it, was left to take care of itself.
In 1649, King Charles was beheaded. Oliver Cromwell then became Protector
of England; and as he was a Puritan himself, and had risen by the valor of
the English Puritans, he showed himself a loving and indulgent father to
the Puritan colonies in America."</p>

<p id="id00123">Grandfather might have continued to talk in this dull manner, nobody knows
how long; but, suspecting that Charley would find the subject rather dry,
he looked sideways at that vivacious little fellow, and saw him give an
involuntary yawn. Whereupon, Grandfather proceeded with the history of the
chair, and related a very entertaining incident, which will be found in
the next chapter.</p>

<h2 id="id00124" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter VI</h2>

<p id="id00125" style="margin-top: 2em">"According to the most authentic records, my dear children," said
Grandfather, "the chair, about this time, had the misfortune to break its
leg. It was probably on account of this accident, that it ceased to be the
seat of the governors of Massachusetts; for, assuredly, it would have been
ominous of evil to the commonwealth, if the Chair of State had tottered
upon three legs. Being therefore sold at auction,—alas! what a vicissitude
for a chair that had figured in such high company, our venerable friend
was knocked down to a certain Captain John Hull. This old gentleman, on
carefully examining the maimed chair, discovered that its broken leg might
be clamped with iron and made as serviceable as ever."</p>

<p id="id00126">"Here is the very leg that was broken!" exclaimed Charley, throwing
himself down on the floor to look at it. "And here are the iron clamps.
How well it was mended!"</p>

<p id="id00127">When they had all sufficiently examined the broken leg, Grandfather told
them a story about Captain John Hull and</p>

<h3 id="id00128" style="margin-top: 3em">THE PINE-TREE SHILLINGS</h3>

<p id="id00129" style="margin-top: 2em">The Captain John Hull, aforesaid, was the mint-master of Massachusetts,
and coined all the money that was made there. This was a new line of
business: for, in the earlier days of the colony, the current coinage
consisted of gold and silver money of England, Portugal, and Spain. These
coins being scarce, the people were often forced to barter their
commodities, instead of selling them.</p>

<p id="id00130">For instance, if a man wanted to buy a coat, he perhaps exchanged a
bear-skin for it. If he wished for a barrel of molasses, he might purchase
it with a pile of pine boards. Musket-bullets were used instead of
farthings. The Indians had a sort of money, called wampum, which was made
of clam-shells; and this strange sort of specie was likewise taken in
payment of debts, by the English settlers. Bank-bills had never been heard
of. There was not money enough of any kind, in many parts of the country,
to pay the salaries of the ministers; so that they sometimes had to take
quintals of fish, bushels of corn, or cords of wood, instead of silver or
gold.</p>

<p id="id00131">As the people grew more numerous, and their trade one with another
increased, the want of current money was still more sensibly felt. To
supply the demand, the general court passed a law for establishing a
coinage of shillings, sixpences, and threepences. Captain John Hull was
appointed to manufacture this money, and was to have about one shilling
out of every twenty to pay him for the trouble of making them.</p>

<p id="id00132">Hereupon, all the old silver in the colony was handed over to Captain John
Hull. The battered silver cans and tankards, I suppose, and silver
buckles, and broken spoons, and silver buttons of worn-out coats, and
silver hilts of swords that had figured at court, all such curious old
articles were doubtless thrown into the melting-pot together. But by far
the greater part of the silver consisted of bullion from the mines of
South America, which the English buccaniers—(who were little better than
pirates)—had taken from the Spaniards, and brought to Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00133">All this old and new silver being melted down and coined, the result was
an immense amount of splendid shillings, sixpences, and threepences. Each
had the date, 1652, on the one side, and the figure of a pine-tree on the
other. Hence they were called pine-tree shillings. And for every twenty
shillings that he coined, you will remember, Captain John Hull was
entitled to put one shilling into his own pocket.</p>

<p id="id00134">The magistrates soon began to suspect that the mint-master would have the
best of the bargain. They offered him a large sum of money, if he would
but give up that twentieth shilling, which he was continually dropping
into his own pocket. But Captain Hull declared himself perfectly satisfied
with the shilling. And well he might be; for so diligently did he labor,
that, in a few years, his pockets, his money bags, and his strong box,
were overflowing with pine-tree shillings. This was probably the case when
he came into possession of Grandfather’s chair; and, as he had worked so
hard at the mint, it was certainly proper that he should have a
comfortable chair to rest himself in.</p>

<p id="id00135">When the mint-master had grown very rich, a young man, Samuel Sewell by
name, came a courting to his only daughter. His daughter,—whose name I do
not know, but we will call her Betsey,—was a fine hearty damsel, by no
means so slender as some young ladies of our own days. On the contrary,
having always fed heartily on pumpkin pies, doughnuts, Indian puddings,
and other Puritan dainties, she was as round and plump as a pudding
herself. With this round, rosy Miss Betsey, did Samuel Sewell fall in
love. As he was a young man of good character, industrious in his
business, and a member of the church, the mint-master very readily gave
his consent.</p>

<p id="id00136">"Yes—you may take her," said he, in his rough way; "and you’ll find her a
heavy burden enough!"</p>

<p id="id00137">On the wedding day, we may suppose that honest John Hull dressed himself
in a plum-colored coat, all the buttons of which were made of pine-tree
shillings. The buttons of his waistcoat were sixpences; and the knees of
his smallclothes were buttoned with silver threepences. Thus attired, he
sat with great dignity in Grandfather’s chair; and, being a portly old
gentleman, he completely filled it from elbow to elbow. On the opposite
side of the room, between her bride-maids, sat Miss Betsey. She was
blushing with all her might, and looked like a full blown pæony, or a
great red apple.</p>

<p id="id00138">There, too, was the bridegroom, dressed in a fine purple coat, and gold
lace waistcoat, with as much other finery as the Puritan laws and customs
would allow him to put on. His hair was cropped close to his head, because
Governor Endicott had forbidden any man to wear it below the ears. But he
was a very personable young man; and so thought the bride-maids and Miss
Betsey herself.</p>

<p id="id00139">The mint-master also was pleased with his new son-in-law; especially as he
had courted Miss Betsey out of pure love, and had said nothing at all
about her portion. So when the marriage ceremony was over, Captain Hull
whispered a word to two of his men-servants, who immediately went out, and
soon returned, lugging in a large pair of scales. They were such a pair as
wholesale merchants use, for weighing bulky commodities; and quite a bulky
commodity was now to be weighed in them.</p>

<p id="id00140">"Daughter Betsey," said the mint-master, "get into one side of these
scales."</p>

<p id="id00141">Miss Betsey,—or Mrs. Sewell, as we must now call her,—did as she was bid,
like a dutiful child, without any question of the why and wherefore. But
what her father could mean, unless to make her husband pay for her by the
pound, (in which case she would have been a dear bargain,) she had not the
least idea.</p>

<p id="id00142">"And now," said honest John Hull to the servants, "bring that box hither."</p>

<p id="id00143">The box, to which the mint-master pointed, was a huge, square, iron bound,
oaken chest; it was big enough, my children, for all four of you to play
at hide-and-seek in. The servants tugged with might and main, but could
not lift this enormous receptacle, and were finally obliged to drag it
across the floor. Captain Hull then took a key from his girdle, unlocked
the chest, and lifted its ponderous lid. Behold! it was full to the brim
of bright pine-tree shillings, fresh from the mint; and Samuel Sewell
began to think that his father-in-law had got possession of all the money
in the Massachusetts treasury. But it was only the mint-master’s honest
share of the coinage.</p>

<p id="id00144">Then the servants, at Captain Hull’s command, heaped double handfulls of
shillings into one side of the scales, while Betsey remained in the other.
Jingle, jingle, went the shillings, as handful after handful was thrown
in, till, plump and ponderous as she was, they fairly weighed the young
lady from the floor.</p>

<p id="id00145">"There, son Sewell!" cried the honest mint-master, resuming his seat in
Grandfather’s chair. "Take these shillings for my daughter’s portion. Use
her kindly, and thank Heaven for her. It is not every wife that’s worth
her weight in silver!"</p>

<p id="id00146" style="margin-top: 3em">The children laughed heartily at this legend, and would hardly be
convinced but that Grandfather had made it out of his own head. He assured
them faithfully, however, that he had found it in the pages of a grave
historian, and had merely tried to tell it in a somewhat funnier style. As
for Samuel Sewell, he afterwards became Chief Justice of Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00147">"Well, Grandfather," remarked Clara, "if wedding portions now-a-days were
paid as Miss Betsey’s was, young ladies would not pride themselves upon an
airy figure as many of them do."</p>

<h2 id="id00148" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter VII</h2>

<p id="id00149" style="margin-top: 2em">When his little audience next assembled round the chair, Grandfather gave
them a doleful history of the Quaker persecution, which began in 1656, and
raged for about three years in Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00150">He told them how, in the first place, twelve of the converts of George
Fox, the first Quaker in the world, had come over from England. They
seemed to be impelled by an earnest love for the souls of men, and a pure
desire to make known what they considered a revelation from Heaven. But
the rulers looked upon them as plotting the downfall of all government and
religion. They were banished from the colony. In a little while, however,
not only the first twelve had returned, but a multitude of other Quakers
had come to rebuke the rulers, and to preach against the priests and
steeple-houses.</p>

<p id="id00151">Grandfather described the hatred and scorn with which these enthusiasts
were received. They were thrown into dungeons; they were beaten with many
stripes, women as well as men; they were driven forth into the wilderness,
and left to the tender mercies of wild beasts and Indians. The children
were amazed to hear, that, the more the Quakers were scourged, and
imprisoned, and banished, the more did the sect increase, both by the
influx of strangers, and by converts from among the Puritans. But
Grandfather told them, that God had put something into the soul of man,
which always turned the cruelties of the persecutor to nought.</p>

<p id="id00152">He went on to relate, that, in 1659, two Quakers, named William Robinson
and Marmaduke Stephenson, were hanged at Boston. A woman had been
sentenced to die with them, but was reprieved, on condition of her leaving
the colony. Her name was Mary Dyer. In the year 1660 she returned to
Boston, although she knew death awaited her there; and, if Grandfather had
been correctly informed, an incident had then taken place, which connects
her with our story. This Mary Dyer had entered the mint-master’s dwelling,
clothed in sackcloth and ashes, and seated herself in our great chair,
with a sort of dignity and state. Then she proceeded to deliver what she
called a message from Heaven; but in the midst of it, they dragged her to
prison.</p>

<p id="id00153">"And was she executed?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00154">"She was," said Grandfather.</p>

<p id="id00155">"Grandfather," cried Charley, clenching his fist, "I would have fought for
that poor Quaker woman!"</p>

<p id="id00156">"Ah! but if a sword had been drawn for her," said Laurence, "it would have
taken away all the beauty of her death."</p>

<p id="id00157">It seemed as if hardly any of the preceding stories had thrown such an
interest around Grandfather’s chair, as did the fact, that the poor,
persecuted, wandering Quaker woman had rested in it for a moment. The
children were so much excited, that Grandfather found it necessary to
bring his account of the persecution to a close.</p>

<p id="id00158">"In 1660, the same year in which Mary Dyer was executed," said he,
"Charles the Second was restored to the throne of his fathers. This king
had many vices; but he would not permit blood to be shed, under pretence
of religion, in any part of his dominions. The Quakers in England told him
what had been done to their brethren in Massachusetts; and he sent orders
to Governor Endicott to forbear all such proceedings in future. And so
ended the Quaker persecution,—one of the most mournful passages in the
history of our forefathers."</p>

<p id="id00159">Grandfather then told his auditors, that, shortly after the above
incident, the great chair had been given by the mint-master to the Rev.
Mr. John Eliot. He was the first minister of Roxbury. But besides
attending to his pastoral duties there, he learned the language of the red
men, and often went into the woods to preach to them. So earnestly did he
labor for their conversion, that he has always been called the apostle to
the Indians. The mention of this holy man suggested to Grandfather the
propriety of giving a brief sketch of the history of the Indians, so far
as they were connected with the English colonists.</p>

<p id="id00160">A short period before the arrival of the first Pilgrims at Plymouth, there
had been a very grievous plague among the red men; and the sages and
ministers of that day were inclined to the opinion, that Providence had
sent this mortality, in order to make room for the settlement of the
English. But I know not why we should suppose that an Indian’s life is
less precious, in the eye of Heaven, than that of a white man. Be that as
it may, death had certainly been very busy with the savage tribes.</p>

<p id="id00161">In many places the English found the wigwams deserted, and the corn-fields
growing to waste, with none to harvest the grain. There were heaps of
earth also, which, being dug open, proved to be Indian graves, containing
bows and flint-headed spears and arrows; for the Indians buried the dead
warrior’s weapons along with him. In some spots, there were skulls and
other human bones, lying unburied. In 1633, and the year afterwards, the
smallpox broke out among the Massachusetts Indians, multitudes of whom
died by this terrible disease of the old world. These misfortunes made
them far less powerful than they had formerly been.</p>

<p id="id00162">For nearly half a century after the arrival of the English, the red men
showed themselves generally inclined to peace and amity. They often made
submission, when they might have made successful war. The Plymouth
settlers, led by the famous Captain Miles Standish, slew some of them in
1623, without any very evident necessity for so doing. In 1636, and the
following year, there was the most dreadful war that had yet occurred
between the Indians and the English. The Connecticut settlers, assisted by
a celebrated Indian chief, named Uncas, bore the brunt of this war, with
but little aid from Massachusetts. Many hundreds of the hostile Indians
were slain, or burnt in their wigwams. Sassacus, their sachem, fled to
another tribe, after his own people were defeated; but he was murdered by
them, and his head was sent to his English enemies.</p>

<p id="id00163">From that period, down to the time of King Philip’s war, which will be
mentioned hereafter, there was not much trouble with the Indians. But the
colonists were always on their guard, and kept their weapons ready for the
conflict.</p>

<p id="id00164">"I have sometimes doubted," said Grandfather, when he had told these
things to the children, "I have sometimes doubted whether there was more
than a single man, among our forefathers, who realized that an Indian
possesses a mind and a heart, and an immortal soul. That single man was
John Eliot. All the rest of the early settlers seemed to think that the
Indians were an inferior race of beings, whom the Creator had merely
allowed to keep possession of this beautiful country, till the white men
should be in want of it.</p>

<p id="id00165">"Did the pious men of those days never try to make Christians of them?"
asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00166">"Sometimes, it is true," answered Grandfather, "the magistrates and
ministers would talk about civilizing and converting the red people. But,
at the bottom of their hearts, they would have had almost as much
expectation of civilizing a wild bear of the woods, and making him fit for
paradise. They felt no faith in the success of any such attempts, because
they had no love for the poor Indians. Now Eliot was full of love for
them, and therefore so full of faith and hope, that he spent the labor of
a lifetime in their behalf."</p>

<p id="id00167">"I would have conquered them first, and then converted them," said<br />

Charley.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00168">"Ah, Charley, there spoke the very spirit of our forefathers!" replied
Grandfather. "But Mr. Eliot had a better spirit. He looked upon them as
his brethren. He persuaded as many of them as he could, to leave off their
idle and wandering habits, and to build houses, and cultivate the earth,
as the English did. He established schools among them, and taught many of
the Indians how to read. He taught them, likewise, how to pray. Hence they
were called ’praying Indians.’ Finally, having spent the best years of his
life for their good, Mr. Eliot resolved to spend the remainder in doing
them a yet greater benefit."</p>

<p id="id00169">"I know what that was!" cried Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00170">"He sat down in his study," continued Grandfather, "and began a
translation of the Bible into the Indian tongue. It was while he was
engaged in this pious work, that the mint-master gave him our great chair.
His toil needed it, and deserved it."</p>

<p id="id00171">"O, Grandfather, tell us all about that Indian Bible!" exclaimed Laurence.
"I have seen it in the library of the Athenæum; and the tears came into my
eyes, to think that there were no Indians left to read it."</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-02-17 00:43:04 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 00:43:05 INFO  - Step 12 - I open font settings
2023-02-17 00:43:05 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:43:06 INFO  - Step 13 - I INCREASE_FONT of text
2023-02-17 00:43:06 INFO  - Button 'setTextLarger' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:43:07 INFO  - Step 14 - Font size 'fontSize' is increased
2023-02-17 00:43:07 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-02-17 00:43:07 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-02-17 00:43:08 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 00:43:08 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:110%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />
<title> </title><meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" /><link href="pgepub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<meta content="EpubMaker 0.3.26 &lt;https://github.com/gitenberg-dev/pg-epubmaker&gt;" name="generator" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body><p id="id00000">The Project Gutenberg EBook of True Stories from History and Biography by
Nathaniel Hawthorne</p>

<p id="id00001" style="margin-top: 3em">This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no
restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under
the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or
online at http://www.gutenberg.org/license</p>

<p id="id00002" style="margin-top: 3em">Title: True Stories from History and Biography</p>

<p id="id00003">Author: Nathaniel Hawthorne</p>

<p id="id00004">Release Date: April 2005 [Ebook #15697]</p>

<p id="id00005">Language: English</p>

<p id="id00006" style="margin-top: 2em">***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TRUE STORIES FROM HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY***</p>

<p id="id00007" style="margin-top: 5em">True Stories from History and Biography<br />

by Nathaniel Hawthorne<br />

BOSTON:<br />

TICKNOR, REED, AND FIELDS.<br />

MDCCCLI.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00008">Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by NATHANIEL<br />

HAWTHORNE, in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the District of<br />

Massachusetts.<br />
</p>

<h5 id="id00009">CAMBRIDGE:
PRINTED BY BOLLES AND HOUGHTON.</h5>

<p id="id00010" style="margin-top: 5em">                              [Frontispiece]</p>

<p id="id00011" style="margin-top: 5em">Preface<br />

THE WHOLE HISTORY OF GRANDFATHER’S CHAIR<br />

Part I<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

      THE LADY ARBELLA<br />

   Chapter III<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter V<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      THE PINE-TREE SHILLINGS<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      THE INDIAN BIBLE<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

   Chapter X<br />

      THE SUNKEN TREASURE<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

Part II<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      THE OLD-FASHIONED SCHOOL<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      THE REJECTED BLESSING<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      THE PROVINCIAL MUSTER<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      THE ACADIAN EXILES<br />

   Chapter X<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

Part III<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      THE HUTCHINSON MOB<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

   Chapter V<br />

      THE BOSTON MASSACRE<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      THE TORY’S FAREWELL<br />

   Chapter X<br />

   Chapter XI<br />

      GRANDFATHER’S DREAM<br />

Biographical Stories<br />

   Chapter I<br />

   Chapter II<br />

      BENJAMIN WEST<br />

   Chapter III<br />

      SIR ISAAC NEWTON<br />

   Chapter IV<br />

      SAMUEL JOHNSON<br />

   Chapter V<br />

      SAMUEL JOHNSON—CONTINUED.<br />

   Chapter VI<br />

      OLIVER CROMWELL<br />

   Chapter VII<br />

      BENJAMIN FRANKLIN<br />

   Chapter VIII<br />

      BENJAMIN FRANKLIN—CONTINUED<br />

   Chapter IX<br />

      QUEEN CHRISTINA<br />
</p>

<h1 id="id00012" style="margin-top: 5em">PREFACE</h1>

<p id="id00013" style="margin-top: 2em">In writing this ponderous tome, the author’s desire has been to describe
the eminent characters and remarkable events of our annals, in such a form
and style, that the YOUNG might make acquaintance with them of their own
accord. For this purpose, while ostensibly relating the adventures of a
Chair, he has endeavored to keep a distinct and unbroken thread of
authentic history. The Chair is made to pass from one to another of those
personages, of whom he thought it most desirable for the young reader to
have vivid and familiar ideas, and whose lives and actions would best
enable him to give picturesque sketches of the times. On its sturdy oaken
legs, it trudges diligently from one scene to another, and seems always to
thrust itself in the way, with most benign complacency, whenever a
historical personage happens to be looking round for a seat.</p>

<p id="id00014">There is certainly no method, by which the shadowy outlines of departed
men and women can he made to assume the hues of life more effectually,
than by connecting their images with the substantial and homely reality of
a fireside chair. It causes us to feel at once, that these characters of
history had a private and familiar existence, and were not wholly
contained within that cold array of outward action, which we are compelled
to receive as the adequate representation of their lives. If this
impression can be given, much is accomplished.</p>

<p id="id00015">Setting aside Grandfather and his auditors, and excepting the adventures
of the Chair, which form the machinery of the work, nothing in the ensuing
pages can be termed fictitious. The author, it is true, has sometimes
assumed the license of filling up the outline of history with details, for
which he has none but imaginative authority, but which, he hopes, do not
violate nor give a false coloring to the truth. He believes that, in this
respect, his narrative will not be found to convey ideas and impressions,
of which the reader may hereafter find it necessary to purge his mind.</p>

<p id="id00016">The author’s great doubt is, whether he has succeeded in writing a book
which will be readable by the class for whom he intends it. To make a
lively and entertaining narrative for children, with such unmalleable
material as is presented by the sombre, stern, and rigid characteristics
of the Puritans and their descendants, is quite as difficult an attempt,
as to manufacture delicate playthings out of the granite rocks on which
New England is founded.</p>

<h1 id="id00017" style="margin-top: 6em">                 THE WHOLE HISTORY OF GRANDFATHER’S CHAIR</h1>

<h4 id="id00018" style="margin-top: 2em">                         COMPLETE IN THREE PARTS.</h4>

<h1 id="id00019" style="margin-top: 5em">PART I</h1>

<h2 id="id00020" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter I</h2>

<p id="id00021" style="margin-top: 2em">Grandfather had been sitting in his old arm-chair, all that pleasant
afternoon, while the children were pursuing their various sports, far off
or near at hand. Sometimes you would have said, "Grandfather is asleep;"
but still, even when his eyes were closed, his thoughts were with the
young people, playing among the flowers and shrubbery of the garden.</p>

<p id="id00022">He heard the voice of Laurence, who had taken possession of a heap of
decayed branches which the gardener had lopped from the fruit trees, and
was building a little hut for his cousin Clara and himself. He heard
Clara’s gladsome voice, too, as she weeded and watered the flower-bed
which had been given her for her own. He could have counted every footstep
that Charley took, as he trundled his wheelbarrow along the gravel walk.
And though Grandfather was old and gray-haired, yet his heart leaped with
joy whenever little Alice came fluttering, like a butterfly, into the
room. She had made each of the children her playmate in turn, and now made
Grandfather her playmate too, and thought him the merriest of them all.</p>

<p id="id00023">At last the children grew weary of their sports; because a summer
afternoon is like a long lifetime to the young. So they came into the room
together, and clustered round Grandfather’s great chair. Little Alice, who
was hardly five years old, took the privilege of the youngest, and climbed
his knee. It was a pleasant thing to behold that fair and golden-haired
child in the lap of the old man, and to think that, different as they
were, the hearts of both could be gladdened with the same joys.</p>

<p id="id00024">"Grandfather," said little Alice, laying her head back upon his arm, "I am
very tired now. You must tell me a story to make me go to sleep."</p>

<p id="id00025">"That is not what story-tellers like," answered Grandfather, smiling.<br />

"They are better satisfied when they can keep their auditors awake."<br />
</p>

<p id="id00026">"But here are Laurence, and Charley, and I," cried cousin Clara, who was
twice as old as little Alice. "We will all three keep wide awake. And
pray, Grandfather, tell us a story about this strange-looking old chair."</p>

<p id="id00027">Now, the chair in which Grandfather sat was made of oak, which had grown
dark with age, but had been rubbed and polished till it shone as bright as
mahogany. It was very large and heavy, and had a back that rose high above
Grandfather’s white head. This back was curiously carved in open work, so
as to represent flowers and foliage and other devices; which the children
had often gazed at, but could never understand what they meant. On the
very tiptop of the chair, over the head of Grandfather himself, was a
likeness of a lion’s head, which had such a savage grin that you would
almost expect to hear it growl and snarl.</p>

<p id="id00028">The children had seen Grandfather sitting in this chair ever since they
could remember any thing. Perhaps the younger of them supposed that he and
the chair had come into the world together, and that both had always been
as old as they were now. At this time, however, it happened to be the
fashion for ladies to adorn their drawing-rooms with the oldest and oddest
chairs that could be found. It seemed to cousin Clara that if these ladies
could have seen Grandfather’s old chair, they would have thought it worth
all the rest together. She wondered if it were not even older than
Grandfather himself, and longed to know all about its history.</p>

<p id="id00029">"Do, Grandfather, talk to us about this chair," she repeated.</p>

<p id="id00030">"Well, child," said Grandfather, patting Clara’s cheek, "I can tell you a
great many stories of my chair. Perhaps your cousin Laurence would like to
hear them too. They would teach him something about the history and
distinguished people of his country, which he has never read in any of his
school-books."</p>

<p id="id00031">Cousin Laurence was a boy of twelve, a bright scholar, in whom an early
thoughtfulness and sensibility began to show themselves. His young fancy
kindled at the idea of knowing all the adventures of this venerable chair.
He looked eagerly in Grandfather’s face; and even Charley, a bold, brisk,
restless little fellow of nine, sat himself down on the carpet, and
resolved to be quiet for at least ten minutes, should the story last so
long.</p>

<p id="id00032">Meantime, little Alice was already asleep; so Grandfather, being much
pleased with such an attentive audience, began to talk about matters that
had happened long ago.</p>

<h2 id="id00033" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter II</h2>

<p id="id00034" style="margin-top: 2em">But, before relating the adventures of the chair, Grandfather found it
necessary to speak of the circumstances that caused the first settlement
of New England. For it will soon be perceived that the story of this
remarkable chair cannot be told without telling a great deal of the
history of the country.</p>

<p id="id00035">So, Grandfather talked about the Puritans, as those persons were called
who thought it sinful to practise the religious forms and ceremonies which
the Church of England had borrowed from the Roman Catholics. These
Puritans suffered so much persecution in England that, in 1607, many of
them went over to Holland, and lived ten or twelve years at Amsterdam and
Leyden. But they feared that, if they continued there much longer, they
should cease to be English, and should adopt all the manners and ideas and
feelings of the Dutch. For this and other reasons, in the year 1620, they
embarked on board of the ship Mayflower, and crossed the ocean to the
shores of Cape Cod. There they made a settlement, and called it Plymouth;
which, though now a part of Massachusetts, was for a long time a colony by
itself. And thus was formed the earliest settlement of the Puritans in
America.</p>

<p id="id00036">Meantime, those of the Puritans who remained in England continued to
suffer grievous persecution on account of their religious opinions. They
began to look around them for some spot where they might worship God, not
as the king and bishops thought fit, but according to the dictates of
their own consciences. When their brethren had gone from Holland to
America, they bethought themselves that they likewise might find refuge
from persecution there. Several gentlemen among them purchased a tract of
country on the coast of Massachusetts Bay, and obtained a charter from
King Charles, which authorized them to make laws for the settlers. In the
year 1628, they sent over a few people, with John Endicott at their head,
to commence a plantation at Salem. Peter Palfrey, Roger Conant, and one or
two more, had built houses there in 1626, and may be considered as the
first settlers of that ancient town. Many other Puritans prepared to
follow Endicott.</p>

<p id="id00037">"And now we come to the chair, my dear children," said Grandfather. "This
chair is supposed to have been made of an oak tree which grew in the park
of the English earl of Lincoln, between two and three centuries ago. In
its younger days it used, probably, to stand in the hall of the earl’s
castle. Do not you see the coat of arms of the family of Lincoln, carved
in the open work of the back? But when his daughter, the Lady Arbella, was
married to a certain Mr. Johnson, the earl gave her this valuable chair."</p>

<p id="id00038">"Who was Mr. Johnson?" inquired Clara.</p>

<p id="id00039">"He was a gentleman of great wealth, who agreed with the Puritans in their
religious opinions," answered Grandfather. "And as his belief was the same
as theirs, he resolved that he would live and die with them. Accordingly,
in the month of April, 1630, he left his pleasant abode and all his
comforts in England, and embarked with the Lady Arbella, on board of a
ship bound for America."</p>

<p id="id00040">As Grandfather was frequently impeded by the questions and observations of
his young auditors, we deem it advisable to omit all such prattle as is
not essential to the story. We have taken some pains to find out exactly
what Grandfather said, and here offer to our readers, as nearly as
possible in his own words, the story of</p>

<h3 id="id00041" style="margin-top: 3em">THE LADY ARBELLA</h3>

<p id="id00042" style="margin-top: 2em">The ship in which Mr. Johnson and his lady embarked, taking Grandfather’s
chair along with them, was called the Arbella, in honor of the lady
herself. A fleet of ten or twelve vessels, with many hundred passengers,
left England about the same time; for a multitude of people, who were
discontented with the king’s government and oppressed by the bishops, were
flocking over to the new world. One of the vessels in the fleet was that
same Mayflower which had carried the Puritan pilgrims to Plymouth. And
now, my children, I would have you fancy yourselves in the cabin of the
good ship Arbella; because if you could behold the passengers aboard that
vessel, you would feel what a blessing and honor it was for New England to
have such settlers. They were the best men and women of their day.</p>

<p id="id00043">Among the passengers was John Winthrop, who had sold the estate of his
forefathers, and was going to prepare a new home for his wife and children
in the wilderness. He had the king’s charter in his keeping, and was
appointed the first Governor of Massachusetts. Imagine him a person of
grave and benevolent aspect, dressed in a black velvet suit, with a broad
ruff around his neck and a peaked beard upon his chin. There was likewise
a minister of the Gospel, whom the English bishops had forbidden to
preach, but who knew that he should have liberty both to preach and pray
in the forests of America. He wore a black cloak, called a Geneva cloak,
and had a black velvet cap, fitting close to his head, as was the fashion
of almost all the Puritan clergymen. In their company came Sir Richard
Saltonstall, who had been one of the five first projectors of the new
colony. He soon returned to his native country. But his descendants still
remain in New England; and the good old family name is as much respected
in our days as it was in those of Sir Richard.</p>

<p id="id00044">Not only these, but several other men of wealth and pious ministers, were
in the cabin of the Arbella. One had banished himself for ever from the
old hall where his ancestors had lived for hundreds of years. Another had
left his quiet parsonage, in a country town of England. Others had come
from the universities of Oxford or Cambridge, where they had gained great
fame for their learning. And here they all were, tossing upon the
uncertain and dangerous sea, and bound for a home that was more dangerous
than even the sea itself. In the cabin, likewise, sat the Lady Arbella in
her chair, with a gentle and sweet expression on her face, but looking too
pale and feeble to endure the hardships of the wilderness.</p>

<p id="id00045">Every morning and evening the Lady Arbella gave up her great chair to one
of the ministers, who took his place in it and read passages from the
Bible to his companions. And thus, with prayers and pious conversation,
and frequent singing of hymns, which the breezes caught from their lips
and scattered far over the desolate waves, they prosecuted their voyage,
and sailed into the harbor of Salem in the month of June.</p>

<p id="id00046">At that period there were but six or eight dwellings in the town; and
these were miserable hovels, with roofs of straw and wooden chimneys. The
passengers in the fleet either built huts with bark and branches of trees,
or erected tents of cloth till they could provide themselves with better
shelter. Many of them went to form a settlement at Charlestown. It was
thought fit that the Lady Arbella should tarry in Salem for a time; she
was probably received as a guest into the family of John Endicott. He was
the chief person in the plantation, and had the only comfortable house
which the new comers had beheld since they left England. So now, children,
you must imagine Grandfather’s chair in the midst of a new scene.</p>

<p id="id00047">Suppose it a hot summer’s day, and the lattice-windows of a chamber in Mr.
Endicott’s house thrown wide open. The Lady Arbella, looking paler than
she did on shipboard, is sitting in her chair, and thinking mournfully of
far-off England. She rises and goes to the window. There, amid patches of
garden ground and cornfield, she sees the few wretched hovels of the
settlers, with the still ruder wigwams and cloth tents of the passengers
who had arrived in the same fleet with herself. Far and near stretches the
dismal forest of pine trees, which throw their black shadows over the
whole land, and likewise over the heart of this poor lady.</p>

<p id="id00048">All the inhabitants of the little village are busy. One is clearing a spot
on the verge of the forest for his homestead; another is hewing the trunk
of a fallen pine tree, in order to build himself a dwelling; a third is
hoeing in his field of Indian corn. Here comes a huntsman out of the
woods, dragging a bear which he has shot, and shouting to the neighbors to
lend him a hand. There goes a man to the sea-shore, with a spade and a
bucket, to dig a mess of clams, which were a principal article of food
with the first settlers. Scattered here and there are two or three dusky
figures, clad in mantles of fur, with ornaments of bone hanging from their
ears, and the feathers of wild birds in their coal black hair. They have
belts of shell-work slung across their shoulders, and are armed with bows
and arrows and flint-headed spears. These are an Indian Sagamore and his
attendants, who have come to gaze at the labors of the white men. And now
rises a cry, that a pack of wolves have seized a young calf in the
pasture; and every man snatches up his gun or pike, and runs in chase of
the marauding beasts.</p>

<p id="id00049">Poor Lady Arbella watches all these sights, and feels that this new world
is fit only for rough and hardy people. None should be here but those who
can struggle with wild beasts and wild men, and can toil in the heat or
cold, and can keep their hearts firm against all difficulties and dangers.
But she is not one of these. Her gentle and timid spirit sinks within her;
and turning away from the window she sits down in the great chair, and
wonders thereabouts in the wilderness her friends will dig her grave.</p>

<p id="id00050">Mr. Johnson had gone, with Governor Winthrop and most of the other
passengers, to Boston, where he intended to build a house for Lady Arbella
and himself. Boston was then covered with wild woods, and had fewer
inhabitants even than Salem. During her husband’s absence, poor Lady
Arbella felt herself growing ill, and was hardly able to stir from the
great chair. Whenever John Endicott noticed her despondency, he doubtless
addressed her with words of comfort. "Cheer up, my good lady!" he would
say. "In a little time, you will love this rude life of the wilderness as
I do." But Endicott’s heart was as bold and resolute as iron, and he could
not understand why a woman’s heart should not be of iron too.</p>

<p id="id00051">Still, however, he spoke kindly to the lady, and then hastened forth to
till his corn-field and set out fruit trees, or to bargain with the
Indians for furs, or perchance to oversee the building of a fort. Also
being a magistrate, he had often to punish some idler or evil-doer, by
ordering him to be set in the stocks or scourged at the whipping-post.
Often, too, as was the custom of the times, he and Mr. Higginson, the
minister of Salem, held long religious talks together. Thus John Endicott
was a man of multifarious business, and had no time to look back
regretfully to his native land. He felt himself fit for the new world, and
for the work that he had to do, and set himself resolutely to accomplish
it.</p>

<p id="id00052">What a contrast, my dear children, between this bold, rough, active man,
and the gentle Lady Arbella, who was fading away, like a pale English
flower, in the shadow of the forest! And now the great chair was often
empty, because Lady Arbella grew too weak to arise from bed.</p>

<p id="id00053">Meantime, her husband had pitched upon a spot for their new home. He
returned from Boston to Salem, travelling through the woods on foot, and
leaning on his pilgrim’s staff. His heart yearned within him; for he was
eager to tell his wife of the new home which he had chosen. But when he
beheld her pale and hollow cheek, and found how her strength was wasted,
he must have known that her appointed home was in a better land. Happy for
him then,—happy both for him and her,—if they remembered that there was a
path to heaven, as well from this heathen wilderness as from the Christian
land whence they had come. And so, in one short month from her arrival,
the gentle Lady Arbella faded away and died. They dug a grave for her in
the new soil, where the roots of the pine trees impeded their spades; and
when her bones had rested there nearly two hundred years, and a city had
sprung up around them, a church of stone was built upon the spot.</p>

<p id="id00054" style="margin-top: 3em">Charley, almost at the commencement of the foregoing narrative, had
galloped away with a prodigious clatter, upon Grandfather’s stick, and was
not yet returned. So large a boy should have been ashamed to ride upon a
stick. But Laurence and Clara had listened attentively, and were affected
by this true story of the gentle lady, who had come so far to die so soon.
Grandfather had supposed that little Alice was asleep, but, towards the
close of the story, happening to look down upon her, he saw that her blue
eyes were wide open, and fixed earnestly upon his face. The tears had
gathered in them, like dew upon a delicate flower; but when Grandfather
ceased to speak, the sunshine of her smile broke forth again.</p>

<p id="id00055">"O, the lady must have been so glad to get to heaven!" exclaimed little<br />

Alice.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00056">"Grandfather, what became of Mr. Johnson?" asked Clara.</p>

<p id="id00057">"His heart appears to have been quite broken," answered Grandfather; "for
he died at Boston within a month after the death of his wife. He was
buried in the very same tract of ground, where he had intended to build a
dwelling for Lady Arbella and himself. Where their house would have stood
there was his grave.</p>

<p id="id00058">"I never heard any thing so melancholy!" said Clara.</p>

<p id="id00059">"The people loved and respected Mr. Johnson so much," continued
Grandfather, "that it was the last request of many of them, when they
died, that they might be buried as near as possible to this good man’s
grave. And so the field became the first burial-ground in Boston. When you
pass through Tremont street, along by King’s Chapel, you see a
burial-ground, containing many old grave-stones and monuments. That was
Mr. Johnson’s field."</p>

<p id="id00060">"How sad is the thought," observed Clara, "that one of the first things
which the settlers had to do, when they came to the new world, was to set
apart a burial-ground!"</p>

<p id="id00061">"Perhaps," said Laurence, "if they had found no need of burial-grounds
here, they would have been glad, after a few years, to go back to
England."</p>

<p id="id00062">Grandfather looked at Laurence, to discover whether he knew how profound
and true a thing he had said.</p>

<h2 id="id00063" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter III</h2>

<p id="id00064" style="margin-top: 2em">Not long after Grandfather had told the story of his great chair, there
chanced to be a rainy day. Our friend Charley, after disturbing the
household with beat of drum and riotous shouts, races up and down the
staircase, overturning of chairs, and much other uproar, began to feel the
quiet and confinement within doors intolerable. But as the rain came down
in a flood, the little fellow was hopelessly a prisoner, and now stood
with sullen aspect at a window, wondering whether the sun itself were not
extinguished by so much moisture in the sky.</p>

<p id="id00065">Charley had already exhausted the less eager activity of the other
children; and they had betaken themselves to occupations that did not
admit of his companionship. Laurence sat in a recess near the book-case,
reading, not for the first time, the Midsummer Night’s Dream. Clara was
making a rosary of beads for a little figure of a Sister of Charity, who
was to attend the Bunker Hill Fair, and lend her aid in erecting the
Monument. Little Alice sat on Grandfather’s foot-stool, with a
picture-book in her hand; and, for every picture, the child was telling
Grandfather a story. She did not read from the book, (for little Alice had
not much skill in reading,) but told the story out of her own heart and
mind.</p>

<p id="id00066">Charley was too big a boy, of course, to care any thing about little
Alice’s stories, although Grandfather appeared to listen with a good deal
of interest. Often, in a young child’s ideas and fancies, there is
something which it requires the thought of a lifetime to comprehend. But
Charley was of opinion, that if a story must be told, it had better be
told by Grandfather, than little Alice.</p>

<p id="id00067">"Grandfather, I want to hear more about your chair," said he.</p>

<p id="id00068">Now Grandfather remembered that Charley had galloped away upon a stick, in
the midst of the narrative of poor Lady Arbella, and I know not whether he
would have thought it worth while to tell another story, merely to gratify
such an inattentive auditor as Charley. But Laurence laid down his book
and seconded the request. Clara drew her chair nearer to Grandfather, and
little Alice immediately closed her picture-book, and looked up into his
face. Grandfather had not the heart to disappoint them.</p>

<p id="id00069">He mentioned several persons who had a share in the settlement of our
country, and who would be well worthy of remembrance, if we could find
room to tell about them all. Among the rest, Grandfather spoke of the
famous Hugh Peters, a minister of the gospel, who did much good to the
inhabitants of Salem. Mr. Peters afterwards went back to England, and was
chaplain to Oliver Cromwell; but Grandfather did not tell the children
what became of this upright and zealous man, at last. In fact, his
auditors were growing impatient to hear more about the history of the
chair.</p>

<p id="id00070">"After the death of Mr. Johnson," said he, "Grandfather’s chair came into
the possession of Roger Williams. He was a clergyman, who arrived at
Salem, and settled there in 1631. Doubtless the good man has spent many a
studious hour in this old chair, either penning a sermon, or reading some
abstruse book of theology, till midnight came upon him unawares. At that
period, as there were few lamps or candles to be had, people used to read
or work by the light of pitchpine torches. These supplied the place of the
"midnight oil," to the learned men of New England."</p>

<p id="id00071">Grandfather went on to talk about Roger Williams, and told the children
several particulars, which we have not room to repeat. One incident,
however, which was connected with his life, must be related, because it
will give the reader an idea of the opinions and feelings of the first
settlers of New England. It was as follows:</p>

<h3 id="id00072" style="margin-top: 3em">THE RED CROSS</h3>

<p id="id00073" style="margin-top: 2em">While Roger Williams sat in Grandfather’s chair, at his humble residence
in Salem, John Endicott would often come to visit him. As the clergy had
great influence in temporal concerns, the minister and magistrate would
talk over the occurrences of the day, and consult how the people might be
governed according to scriptural laws.</p>

<p id="id00074">One thing especially troubled them both. In the old national banner of
England, under which her soldiers have fought for hundreds of years, there
is a Red Cross, which has been there ever since the days when England was
in subjection to the Pope. The Cross, though a holy symbol, was abhorred
by the Puritans, because they considered it a relic of Popish idolatry.
Now, whenever the train-band of Salem was mustered, the soldiers, with
Endicott at their head, had no other flag to march under than this same
old papistical banner of England, with the Red Cross in the midst of it.
The banner of the Red Cross, likewise, was flying on the walls of the fort
of Salem; and a similar one was displayed in Boston harbor, from the
fortress on Castle Island.</p>

<p id="id00075">"I profess, brother Williams," Captain Endicott would say, after they had
been talking of this matter, "it distresses a Christian man’s heart, to
see this idolatrous Cross flying over our heads. A stranger beholding it,
would think that we had undergone all our hardships and dangers, by sea
and in the wilderness, only to get new dominions for the Pope of Rome."</p>

<p id="id00076">"Truly, good Mr. Endicott," Roger Williams would answer, "you speak as an
honest man and Protestant Christian should. For mine own part, were it my
business to draw a sword, I should reckon it sinful to fight under such a
banner. Neither can I, in my pulpit, ask the blessing of Heaven upon it."</p>

<p id="id00077">Such, probably, was the way in which Roger Williams and John Endicott used
to talk about the banner of the Red Cross. Endicott, who was a prompt and
resolute man, soon determined that Massachusetts, if she could not have a
banner of her own, should at least be delivered from that of the Pope of
Rome.</p>

<p id="id00078">Not long afterwards there was a military muster at Salem. Every
able-bodied man, in the town and neighborhood, was there. All were well
armed, with steel caps upon their heads, plates of iron upon their breasts
and at their backs, and gorgets of steel around their necks. When the sun
shone upon these ranks of iron-clad men, they flashed and blazed with a
splendor that bedazzled the wild Indians, who had come out of the woods to
gaze at them. The soldiers had long pikes, swords, and muskets, which were
fired with matches, and were almost as heavy as a small cannon.</p>

<p id="id00079">These men had mostly a stern and rigid aspect. To judge by their looks,
you might have supposed that there was as much iron in their hearts, as
there was upon their heads and breasts. They were all devoted Puritans,
and of the same temper as those with whom Oliver Cromwell afterwards
overthrew the throne of England. They hated all the relics of Popish
superstition as much as Endicott himself; and yet, over their heads, was
displayed the banner of the Red Cross.</p>

<p id="id00080">Endicott was the captain of the company. While the soldiers were expecting
his orders to begin their exercise, they saw him take the banner in one
hand, holding his drawn sword in the other. Probably he addressed them in
a speech, and explained how horrible a thing it was, that men, who had
fled from Popish idolatry into the wilderness, should be compelled to
fight under its symbols here. Perhaps he concluded his address somewhat in
the following style.</p>

<p id="id00081">"And now, fellow soldiers, you see this old banner of England. Some of
you, I doubt not, may think it treason for a man to lay violent hands upon
it. But whether or no it be treason to man, I have good assurance in my
conscience that it is no treason to God. Wherefore I have resolved that we
will rather be God’s soldiers, than soldiers of the Pope of Rome; and in
that mind I now cut the Papal Cross out of this banner."</p>

<p id="id00082">And so he did. And thus, in a province belonging to the crown of England,
a captain was found bold enough to deface the King’s banner with his
sword.</p>

<p id="id00083">When Winthrop, and the other wise men of Massachusetts, heard of it, they
were disquieted, being afraid that Endicott’s act would bring great
trouble upon himself and them. An account of the matter was carried to
King Charles; but he was then so much engrossed by dissensions with his
people, that he had no leisure to punish the offender. In other times, it
might have cost Endicott his life, and Massachusetts her charter.</p>

<p id="id00084" style="margin-top: 3em">"I should like to know, Grandfather," said Laurence, when the story was
ended, "whether, when Endicott cut the Red Cross out of the banner, he
meant to imply that Massachusetts was independent of England?"</p>

<p id="id00085">"A sense of the independence of his adopted country, must have been in
that bold man’s heart," answered Grandfather; "but I doubt whether he had
given the matter much consideration, except in its religious bearing.
However, it was a very remarkable affair, and a very strong expression of
Puritan character."</p>

<p id="id00086">Grandfather proceeded to speak further of Roger Williams, and of other
persons who sat in the great chair, as will be seen in the following
chapter.</p>

<h2 id="id00087" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter IV</h2>

<p id="id00088" style="margin-top: 2em">"Roger Williams," said Grandfather, "did not keep possession of the chair
a great while. His opinions of civil and religious matters differed, in
many respects, from those of the rulers and clergymen of Massachusetts.
Now the wise men of those days believed, that the country could not be
safe, unless all the inhabitants thought and felt alike."</p>

<p id="id00089">"Does any body believe so in our days Grandfather?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00090">"Possibly there are some who believe it," said Grandfather; "but they have
not so much power to act upon their belief, as the magistrates and
ministers had, in the days of Roger Williams. They had the power to
deprive this good man of his home, and to send him out from the midst of
them, in search of a new place of rest. He was banished in 1634, and went
first to Plymouth colony; but as the people there held the same opinions
as those of Massachusetts, he was not suffered to remain among them.
However, the wilderness was wide enough; so Roger Williams took his staff
and travelled into the forest, and made treaties with the Indians, and
began a plantation which he called Providence."</p>

<p id="id00091">"I have been to Providence on the railroad," said Charley. "It is but a
two hours’ ride."</p>

<p id="id00092">"Yes, Charley," replied Grandfather; "but when Roger Williams travelled
thither, over hills and valleys, and through the tangled woods, and across
swamps and streams, it was a journey of several days. Well; his little
plantation is now grown to be a populous city; and the inhabitants have a
great veneration for Roger Williams. His name is familiar in the mouths of
all because they see it on their bank bills. How it would have perplexed
this good clergyman, if he had been told that he should give his name to
the ROGER WILLIAMS BANK!"</p>

<p id="id00093">"When he was driven from Massachusetts," said Laurence, "and began his
journey into the woods, he must have felt as if he were burying himself
forever from the sight and knowledge of men. Yet the whole country has now
heard of him, and will remember him forever."</p>

<p id="id00094">"Yes," answered Grandfather, "it often happens, that the outcasts of one
generation are those, who are reverenced as the wisest and best of men by
the next. The securest fame is that which comes after a man’s death. But
let us return to our story. When Roger Williams was banished, he appears
to have given the chair to Mrs. Anne Hutchinson. At all events it was in
her possession in 1637. She was a very sharp-witted and well-instructed
lady, and was so conscious of her own wisdom and abilities, that she
thought it a pity that the world should not have the benefit of them. She
therefore used to hold lectures in Boston, once or twice a week, at which
most of the women attended. Mrs. Hutchinson presided at these meetings,
sitting, with great state and dignity, in Grandfather’s chair."</p>

<p id="id00095">"Grandfather, was it positively this very chair?" demanded Clara, laying
her hand upon its carved elbow.</p>

<p id="id00096">"Why not, my dear Clara?" said Grandfather. "Well; Mrs. Hutchinson’s
lectures soon caused a great disturbance; for the ministers of Boston did
not think it safe and proper, that a woman should publicly instruct the
people in religious doctrines. Moreover, she made the matter worse, by
declaring that the Rev. Mr. Cotton was the only sincerely pious and holy
clergyman in New England. Now the clergy of those days had quite as much
share in the government of the country, though indirectly, as the
magistrates themselves; so you may imagine what a host of powerful enemies
were raised up against Mrs. Hutchinson. A synod was convened; that is to
say, an assemblage of all the ministers in Massachusetts. They declared
that there were eighty-two erroneous opinions on religious subjects,
diffused among the people, and that Mrs. Hutchinson’s opinions were of the
number."</p>

<p id="id00097">"If they had eighty-two wrong opinions," observed Charley, "I don’t see
how they could have any right ones."</p>

<p id="id00098">"Mrs. Hutchinson had many zealous friends and converts," continued
Grandfather. "She was favored by young Henry Vane, who had come over from
England a year or two before, and had since been chosen governor of the
colony, at the age of twenty-four. But Winthrop, and most of the other
leading men, as well as the ministers, felt an abhorrence of her
doctrines. Thus two opposite parties were formed; and so fierce were the
dissensions, that it was feared the consequence would be civil war and
bloodshed. But Winthrop and the ministers being the most powerful, they
disarmed and imprisoned Mrs. Hutchinson’s adherents. She, like Roger
Williams, was banished."</p>

<p id="id00099">"Dear Grandfather, did they drive the poor woman into the woods?"
exclaimed little Alice, who contrived to feel a human interest even in
these discords of polemic divinity.</p>

<p id="id00100">"They did, my darling," replied Grandfather; "and the end of her life was
so sad, you must not hear it. At her departure, it appears from the best
authorities, that she gave the great chair to her friend, Henry Vane. He
was a young man of wonderful talents and great learning, who had imbibed
the religious opinions of the Puritans, and left England with the
intention of spending his life in Massachusetts. The people chose him
governor; but the controversy about Mrs. Hutchinson, and other troubles,
caused him to leave the country in 1637. You may read the subsequent
events of his life in the History of England."</p>

<p id="id00101">"Yes, Grandfather," cried Laurence; "and we may read them better in Mr.
Upham’s biography of Vane. And what a beautiful death he died, long
afterwards! beautiful, though it was on a scaffold."</p>

<p id="id00102">"Many of the most beautiful deaths have been there," said Grandfather.
"The enemies of a great and good man can in no other way make him so
glorious, as by giving him the crown of martyrdom."</p>

<p id="id00103">In order that the children might fully understand the all-important
history of the chair, Grandfather now thought fit to speak of the progress
that was made in settling several colonies. The settlement of Plymouth, in
1620, has already been mentioned. In 1635, Mr. Hooker and Mr. Stone, two
ministers, went on foot from Massachusetts to Connecticut, through the
pathless woods, taking their whole congregation along with them. They
founded the town of Hartford. In 1638, Mr. Davenport, a very celebrated
minister, went, with other people, and began a plantation at New Haven. In
the same year, some persons who had been persecuted in Massachusetts, went
to the Isle of Rhodes, since called Rhode Island, and settled there. About
this time, also, many settlers had gone to Maine, and were living without
any regular government. There were likewise settlers near Piscataqua
River, in the region which is now called New Hampshire.</p>

<p id="id00104">Thus, at various points along the coast of New England, there were
communities of Englishmen. Though these communities were independent of
one another, yet they had a common dependence upon England; and, at so
vast a distance from their native home, the inhabitants must all have felt
like brethren. They were fitted to become one united people, at a future
period. Perhaps their feelings of brotherhood were the stronger, because
different nations had formed settlements to the north and to the south. In
Canada and Nova Scotia were colonies of French. On the banks of the Hudson
River was a colony of Dutch, who had taken possession of that region many
years before, and called it New Netherlands.</p>

<p id="id00105">Grandfather, for aught I know, might have gone on to speak of Maryland and
Virginia; for the good old gentleman really seemed to suppose, that the
whole surface of the United States was not too broad a foundation to place
the four legs of his chair upon. But, happening to glance at Charley, he
perceived that this naughty boy was growing impatient, and meditating
another ride upon a stick. So here, for the present, Grandfather suspended
the history of his chair.</p>

<h2 id="id00106" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter V</h2>

<p id="id00107" style="margin-top: 2em">The Children had now learned to look upon the chair with an interest,
which was almost the same as if it were a conscious being, and could
remember the many famous people whom it had held within its arms.</p>

<p id="id00108">Even Charley, lawless as he was, seemed to feel that this venerable chair
must not be clambered upon nor overturned, although he had no scruple in
taking such liberties with every other chair in the house. Clara treated
it with still greater reverence, often taking occasion to smooth its
cushion, and to brush the dust from the carved flowers and grotesque
figures of its oaken back and arms. Laurence would sometimes sit a whole
hour, especially at twilight, gazing at the chair, and, by the spell of
his imaginations, summoning up its ancient occupants to appear in it
again.</p>

<p id="id00109">Little Alice evidently employed herself in a similar way; for once, when
Grandfather had gone abroad, the child was heard talking with the gentle
Lady Arbella, as if she were still sitting in the chair. So sweet a child
as little Alice may fitly talk with angels, such as the Lady Arbella had
long since become.</p>

<p id="id00110">Grandfather was soon importuned for more stories about the chair. He had
no difficulty in relating them; for it really seemed as if every person,
noted in our early history, had, on some occasion or other, found repose
within its comfortable arms. If Grandfather took pride in any thing, it
was in being the possessor of such an honorable and historic elbow chair.</p>

<p id="id00111">"I know not precisely who next got possession of the chair, after Governor
Vane went back to England," said Grandfather. "But there is reason to
believe that President Dunster sat in it, when he held the first
commencement at Harvard College. You have often heard, children, how
careful our forefathers were, to give their young people a good education.
They had scarcely cut down trees enough to make room for their own
dwellings, before they began to think of establishing a college. Their
principal object was, to rear up pious and learned ministers; and hence
old writers call Harvard College a school of the prophets."</p>

<p id="id00112">"Is the college a school of the prophets now?" asked Charley.</p>

<p id="id00113">"It is a long while since I took my degree, Charley. You must ask some of
the recent graduates," answered Grandfather. "As I was telling you,
President Dunster sat in Grandfather’s chair in 1642, when he conferred
the degree of bachelor of arts on nine young men. They were the first in
America, who had received that honor. And now, my dear auditors, I must
confess that there are contradictory statements and some uncertainty about
the adventures of the chair, for a period of almost ten years. Some say
that it was occupied by your own ancestor, William Hawthorne, first
Speaker of the House of Representatives. I have nearly satisfied myself,
however, that, during most of this questionable period, it was literally
the Chair of State. It gives me much pleasure to imagine, that several
successive governors of Massachusetts sat in it at the council board."</p>

<p id="id00114">"But, Grandfather," interposed Charley, who was a matter-of-fact little
person, "what reason have you to imagine so?"</p>

<p id="id00115">"Pray do imagine it, Grandfather," said Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00116">"With Charley’s permission, I will," replied Grandfather, smiling. "Let us
consider it settled, therefore, that Winthrop, Bellingham, Dudley, and
Endicott, each of them, when chosen governor, took his seat in our great
chair on election day. In this chair, likewise, did those excellent
governors preside, while holding consultations with the chief counsellors
of the province, who were styled Assistants. The governor sat in this
chair, too, whenever messages were brought to him from the chamber of
Representatives."</p>

<p id="id00117">And here Grandfather took occasion to talk, rather tediously, about the
nature and forms of government that established themselves, almost
spontaneously, in Massachusetts and the other New England colonies.
Democracies were the natural growth of the new world. As to Massachusetts,
it was at first intended that the colony should be governed by a council
in London. But, in a little while, the people had the whole power in their
own hands, and chose annually the governor, the counsellors, and the
representatives. The people of old England had never enjoyed any thing
like the liberties and privileges, which the settlers of New England now
possessed. And they did not adopt these modes of government after long
study, but in simplicity, as if there were no other way for people to be
ruled.</p>

<p id="id00118">"But, Laurence," continued Grandfather, "when you want instruction on
these points, you must seek it in Mr. Bancroft’s History. I am merely
telling the history of a chair. To proceed. The period during which the
governors sat in our chair, was not very full of striking incidents. The
province was now established on a secure foundation; but it did not
increase so rapidly as at first, because the Puritans were no longer
driven from England by persecution. However, there was still a quiet and
natural growth. The legislature incorporated towns, and made new purchases
of lands from the Indians. A very memorable event took place in 1643. The
colonies of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut, and New Haven, formed a
union, for the purpose of assisting each other in difficulties, and for
mutual defence against their enemies. They called themselves the United
Colonies of New England."</p>

<p id="id00119">"Were they under a government like that of the United States?" inquired<br />

Laurence.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00120">"No," replied Grandfather, "the different colonies did not compose one
nation together; it was merely a confederacy among the governments. It
somewhat resembled the league of the Amphictyons, which you remember in
Grecian history. But to return to our chair. In 1644 it was highly
honored; for Governor Endicott sat in it, when he gave audience to an
ambassador from the French governor of Acadie, or Nova Scotia. A treaty of
peace, between Massachusetts and the French colony, was then signed."</p>

<p id="id00121">"Did England allow Massachusetts to make war and peace with foreign
countries?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00122">"Massachusetts, and the whole of New England, was then almost independent
of the mother country," said Grandfather. "There was now a civil war in
England; and the king, as you may well suppose, had his hands full at
home, and could pay but little attention to these remote colonies. When
the Parliament got the power into their hands, they likewise had enough to
do in keeping down the Cavaliers. Thus New England, like a young and hardy
lad, whose father and mother neglect it, was left to take care of itself.
In 1649, King Charles was beheaded. Oliver Cromwell then became Protector
of England; and as he was a Puritan himself, and had risen by the valor of
the English Puritans, he showed himself a loving and indulgent father to
the Puritan colonies in America."</p>

<p id="id00123">Grandfather might have continued to talk in this dull manner, nobody knows
how long; but, suspecting that Charley would find the subject rather dry,
he looked sideways at that vivacious little fellow, and saw him give an
involuntary yawn. Whereupon, Grandfather proceeded with the history of the
chair, and related a very entertaining incident, which will be found in
the next chapter.</p>

<h2 id="id00124" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter VI</h2>

<p id="id00125" style="margin-top: 2em">"According to the most authentic records, my dear children," said
Grandfather, "the chair, about this time, had the misfortune to break its
leg. It was probably on account of this accident, that it ceased to be the
seat of the governors of Massachusetts; for, assuredly, it would have been
ominous of evil to the commonwealth, if the Chair of State had tottered
upon three legs. Being therefore sold at auction,—alas! what a vicissitude
for a chair that had figured in such high company, our venerable friend
was knocked down to a certain Captain John Hull. This old gentleman, on
carefully examining the maimed chair, discovered that its broken leg might
be clamped with iron and made as serviceable as ever."</p>

<p id="id00126">"Here is the very leg that was broken!" exclaimed Charley, throwing
himself down on the floor to look at it. "And here are the iron clamps.
How well it was mended!"</p>

<p id="id00127">When they had all sufficiently examined the broken leg, Grandfather told
them a story about Captain John Hull and</p>

<h3 id="id00128" style="margin-top: 3em">THE PINE-TREE SHILLINGS</h3>

<p id="id00129" style="margin-top: 2em">The Captain John Hull, aforesaid, was the mint-master of Massachusetts,
and coined all the money that was made there. This was a new line of
business: for, in the earlier days of the colony, the current coinage
consisted of gold and silver money of England, Portugal, and Spain. These
coins being scarce, the people were often forced to barter their
commodities, instead of selling them.</p>

<p id="id00130">For instance, if a man wanted to buy a coat, he perhaps exchanged a
bear-skin for it. If he wished for a barrel of molasses, he might purchase
it with a pile of pine boards. Musket-bullets were used instead of
farthings. The Indians had a sort of money, called wampum, which was made
of clam-shells; and this strange sort of specie was likewise taken in
payment of debts, by the English settlers. Bank-bills had never been heard
of. There was not money enough of any kind, in many parts of the country,
to pay the salaries of the ministers; so that they sometimes had to take
quintals of fish, bushels of corn, or cords of wood, instead of silver or
gold.</p>

<p id="id00131">As the people grew more numerous, and their trade one with another
increased, the want of current money was still more sensibly felt. To
supply the demand, the general court passed a law for establishing a
coinage of shillings, sixpences, and threepences. Captain John Hull was
appointed to manufacture this money, and was to have about one shilling
out of every twenty to pay him for the trouble of making them.</p>

<p id="id00132">Hereupon, all the old silver in the colony was handed over to Captain John
Hull. The battered silver cans and tankards, I suppose, and silver
buckles, and broken spoons, and silver buttons of worn-out coats, and
silver hilts of swords that had figured at court, all such curious old
articles were doubtless thrown into the melting-pot together. But by far
the greater part of the silver consisted of bullion from the mines of
South America, which the English buccaniers—(who were little better than
pirates)—had taken from the Spaniards, and brought to Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00133">All this old and new silver being melted down and coined, the result was
an immense amount of splendid shillings, sixpences, and threepences. Each
had the date, 1652, on the one side, and the figure of a pine-tree on the
other. Hence they were called pine-tree shillings. And for every twenty
shillings that he coined, you will remember, Captain John Hull was
entitled to put one shilling into his own pocket.</p>

<p id="id00134">The magistrates soon began to suspect that the mint-master would have the
best of the bargain. They offered him a large sum of money, if he would
but give up that twentieth shilling, which he was continually dropping
into his own pocket. But Captain Hull declared himself perfectly satisfied
with the shilling. And well he might be; for so diligently did he labor,
that, in a few years, his pockets, his money bags, and his strong box,
were overflowing with pine-tree shillings. This was probably the case when
he came into possession of Grandfather’s chair; and, as he had worked so
hard at the mint, it was certainly proper that he should have a
comfortable chair to rest himself in.</p>

<p id="id00135">When the mint-master had grown very rich, a young man, Samuel Sewell by
name, came a courting to his only daughter. His daughter,—whose name I do
not know, but we will call her Betsey,—was a fine hearty damsel, by no
means so slender as some young ladies of our own days. On the contrary,
having always fed heartily on pumpkin pies, doughnuts, Indian puddings,
and other Puritan dainties, she was as round and plump as a pudding
herself. With this round, rosy Miss Betsey, did Samuel Sewell fall in
love. As he was a young man of good character, industrious in his
business, and a member of the church, the mint-master very readily gave
his consent.</p>

<p id="id00136">"Yes—you may take her," said he, in his rough way; "and you’ll find her a
heavy burden enough!"</p>

<p id="id00137">On the wedding day, we may suppose that honest John Hull dressed himself
in a plum-colored coat, all the buttons of which were made of pine-tree
shillings. The buttons of his waistcoat were sixpences; and the knees of
his smallclothes were buttoned with silver threepences. Thus attired, he
sat with great dignity in Grandfather’s chair; and, being a portly old
gentleman, he completely filled it from elbow to elbow. On the opposite
side of the room, between her bride-maids, sat Miss Betsey. She was
blushing with all her might, and looked like a full blown pæony, or a
great red apple.</p>

<p id="id00138">There, too, was the bridegroom, dressed in a fine purple coat, and gold
lace waistcoat, with as much other finery as the Puritan laws and customs
would allow him to put on. His hair was cropped close to his head, because
Governor Endicott had forbidden any man to wear it below the ears. But he
was a very personable young man; and so thought the bride-maids and Miss
Betsey herself.</p>

<p id="id00139">The mint-master also was pleased with his new son-in-law; especially as he
had courted Miss Betsey out of pure love, and had said nothing at all
about her portion. So when the marriage ceremony was over, Captain Hull
whispered a word to two of his men-servants, who immediately went out, and
soon returned, lugging in a large pair of scales. They were such a pair as
wholesale merchants use, for weighing bulky commodities; and quite a bulky
commodity was now to be weighed in them.</p>

<p id="id00140">"Daughter Betsey," said the mint-master, "get into one side of these
scales."</p>

<p id="id00141">Miss Betsey,—or Mrs. Sewell, as we must now call her,—did as she was bid,
like a dutiful child, without any question of the why and wherefore. But
what her father could mean, unless to make her husband pay for her by the
pound, (in which case she would have been a dear bargain,) she had not the
least idea.</p>

<p id="id00142">"And now," said honest John Hull to the servants, "bring that box hither."</p>

<p id="id00143">The box, to which the mint-master pointed, was a huge, square, iron bound,
oaken chest; it was big enough, my children, for all four of you to play
at hide-and-seek in. The servants tugged with might and main, but could
not lift this enormous receptacle, and were finally obliged to drag it
across the floor. Captain Hull then took a key from his girdle, unlocked
the chest, and lifted its ponderous lid. Behold! it was full to the brim
of bright pine-tree shillings, fresh from the mint; and Samuel Sewell
began to think that his father-in-law had got possession of all the money
in the Massachusetts treasury. But it was only the mint-master’s honest
share of the coinage.</p>

<p id="id00144">Then the servants, at Captain Hull’s command, heaped double handfulls of
shillings into one side of the scales, while Betsey remained in the other.
Jingle, jingle, went the shillings, as handful after handful was thrown
in, till, plump and ponderous as she was, they fairly weighed the young
lady from the floor.</p>

<p id="id00145">"There, son Sewell!" cried the honest mint-master, resuming his seat in
Grandfather’s chair. "Take these shillings for my daughter’s portion. Use
her kindly, and thank Heaven for her. It is not every wife that’s worth
her weight in silver!"</p>

<p id="id00146" style="margin-top: 3em">The children laughed heartily at this legend, and would hardly be
convinced but that Grandfather had made it out of his own head. He assured
them faithfully, however, that he had found it in the pages of a grave
historian, and had merely tried to tell it in a somewhat funnier style. As
for Samuel Sewell, he afterwards became Chief Justice of Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00147">"Well, Grandfather," remarked Clara, "if wedding portions now-a-days were
paid as Miss Betsey’s was, young ladies would not pride themselves upon an
airy figure as many of them do."</p>

<h2 id="id00148" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter VII</h2>

<p id="id00149" style="margin-top: 2em">When his little audience next assembled round the chair, Grandfather gave
them a doleful history of the Quaker persecution, which began in 1656, and
raged for about three years in Massachusetts.</p>

<p id="id00150">He told them how, in the first place, twelve of the converts of George
Fox, the first Quaker in the world, had come over from England. They
seemed to be impelled by an earnest love for the souls of men, and a pure
desire to make known what they considered a revelation from Heaven. But
the rulers looked upon them as plotting the downfall of all government and
religion. They were banished from the colony. In a little while, however,
not only the first twelve had returned, but a multitude of other Quakers
had come to rebuke the rulers, and to preach against the priests and
steeple-houses.</p>

<p id="id00151">Grandfather described the hatred and scorn with which these enthusiasts
were received. They were thrown into dungeons; they were beaten with many
stripes, women as well as men; they were driven forth into the wilderness,
and left to the tender mercies of wild beasts and Indians. The children
were amazed to hear, that, the more the Quakers were scourged, and
imprisoned, and banished, the more did the sect increase, both by the
influx of strangers, and by converts from among the Puritans. But
Grandfather told them, that God had put something into the soul of man,
which always turned the cruelties of the persecutor to nought.</p>

<p id="id00152">He went on to relate, that, in 1659, two Quakers, named William Robinson
and Marmaduke Stephenson, were hanged at Boston. A woman had been
sentenced to die with them, but was reprieved, on condition of her leaving
the colony. Her name was Mary Dyer. In the year 1660 she returned to
Boston, although she knew death awaited her there; and, if Grandfather had
been correctly informed, an incident had then taken place, which connects
her with our story. This Mary Dyer had entered the mint-master’s dwelling,
clothed in sackcloth and ashes, and seated herself in our great chair,
with a sort of dignity and state. Then she proceeded to deliver what she
called a message from Heaven; but in the midst of it, they dragged her to
prison.</p>

<p id="id00153">"And was she executed?" asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00154">"She was," said Grandfather.</p>

<p id="id00155">"Grandfather," cried Charley, clenching his fist, "I would have fought for
that poor Quaker woman!"</p>

<p id="id00156">"Ah! but if a sword had been drawn for her," said Laurence, "it would have
taken away all the beauty of her death."</p>

<p id="id00157">It seemed as if hardly any of the preceding stories had thrown such an
interest around Grandfather’s chair, as did the fact, that the poor,
persecuted, wandering Quaker woman had rested in it for a moment. The
children were so much excited, that Grandfather found it necessary to
bring his account of the persecution to a close.</p>

<p id="id00158">"In 1660, the same year in which Mary Dyer was executed," said he,
"Charles the Second was restored to the throne of his fathers. This king
had many vices; but he would not permit blood to be shed, under pretence
of religion, in any part of his dominions. The Quakers in England told him
what had been done to their brethren in Massachusetts; and he sent orders
to Governor Endicott to forbear all such proceedings in future. And so
ended the Quaker persecution,—one of the most mournful passages in the
history of our forefathers."</p>

<p id="id00159">Grandfather then told his auditors, that, shortly after the above
incident, the great chair had been given by the mint-master to the Rev.
Mr. John Eliot. He was the first minister of Roxbury. But besides
attending to his pastoral duties there, he learned the language of the red
men, and often went into the woods to preach to them. So earnestly did he
labor for their conversion, that he has always been called the apostle to
the Indians. The mention of this holy man suggested to Grandfather the
propriety of giving a brief sketch of the history of the Indians, so far
as they were connected with the English colonists.</p>

<p id="id00160">A short period before the arrival of the first Pilgrims at Plymouth, there
had been a very grievous plague among the red men; and the sages and
ministers of that day were inclined to the opinion, that Providence had
sent this mortality, in order to make room for the settlement of the
English. But I know not why we should suppose that an Indian’s life is
less precious, in the eye of Heaven, than that of a white man. Be that as
it may, death had certainly been very busy with the savage tribes.</p>

<p id="id00161">In many places the English found the wigwams deserted, and the corn-fields
growing to waste, with none to harvest the grain. There were heaps of
earth also, which, being dug open, proved to be Indian graves, containing
bows and flint-headed spears and arrows; for the Indians buried the dead
warrior’s weapons along with him. In some spots, there were skulls and
other human bones, lying unburied. In 1633, and the year afterwards, the
smallpox broke out among the Massachusetts Indians, multitudes of whom
died by this terrible disease of the old world. These misfortunes made
them far less powerful than they had formerly been.</p>

<p id="id00162">For nearly half a century after the arrival of the English, the red men
showed themselves generally inclined to peace and amity. They often made
submission, when they might have made successful war. The Plymouth
settlers, led by the famous Captain Miles Standish, slew some of them in
1623, without any very evident necessity for so doing. In 1636, and the
following year, there was the most dreadful war that had yet occurred
between the Indians and the English. The Connecticut settlers, assisted by
a celebrated Indian chief, named Uncas, bore the brunt of this war, with
but little aid from Massachusetts. Many hundreds of the hostile Indians
were slain, or burnt in their wigwams. Sassacus, their sachem, fled to
another tribe, after his own people were defeated; but he was murdered by
them, and his head was sent to his English enemies.</p>

<p id="id00163">From that period, down to the time of King Philip’s war, which will be
mentioned hereafter, there was not much trouble with the Indians. But the
colonists were always on their guard, and kept their weapons ready for the
conflict.</p>

<p id="id00164">"I have sometimes doubted," said Grandfather, when he had told these
things to the children, "I have sometimes doubted whether there was more
than a single man, among our forefathers, who realized that an Indian
possesses a mind and a heart, and an immortal soul. That single man was
John Eliot. All the rest of the early settlers seemed to think that the
Indians were an inferior race of beings, whom the Creator had merely
allowed to keep possession of this beautiful country, till the white men
should be in want of it.</p>

<p id="id00165">"Did the pious men of those days never try to make Christians of them?"
asked Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00166">"Sometimes, it is true," answered Grandfather, "the magistrates and
ministers would talk about civilizing and converting the red people. But,
at the bottom of their hearts, they would have had almost as much
expectation of civilizing a wild bear of the woods, and making him fit for
paradise. They felt no faith in the success of any such attempts, because
they had no love for the poor Indians. Now Eliot was full of love for
them, and therefore so full of faith and hope, that he spent the labor of
a lifetime in their behalf."</p>

<p id="id00167">"I would have conquered them first, and then converted them," said<br />

Charley.<br />
</p>

<p id="id00168">"Ah, Charley, there spoke the very spirit of our forefathers!" replied
Grandfather. "But Mr. Eliot had a better spirit. He looked upon them as
his brethren. He persuaded as many of them as he could, to leave off their
idle and wandering habits, and to build houses, and cultivate the earth,
as the English did. He established schools among them, and taught many of
the Indians how to read. He taught them, likewise, how to pray. Hence they
were called ’praying Indians.’ Finally, having spent the best years of his
life for their good, Mr. Eliot resolved to spend the remainder in doing
them a yet greater benefit."</p>

<p id="id00169">"I know what that was!" cried Laurence.</p>

<p id="id00170">"He sat down in his study," continued Grandfather, "and began a
translation of the Bible into the Indian tongue. It was while he was
engaged in this pious work, that the mint-master gave him our great chair.
His toil needed it, and deserved it."</p>

<p id="id00171">"O, Grandfather, tell us all about that Indian Bible!" exclaimed Laurence.
"I have seen it in the library of the Athenæum; and the tears came into my
eyes, to think that there were no Indians left to read it."</p>

</body>
</html>
2023-02-17 00:43:08 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 00:43:09 INFO  - Step 15 - I restart app
2023-02-17 00:43:33 INFO  - Step 16 - I open Books
2023-02-17 00:43:33 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:43:34 INFO  - Step 17 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-02-17 00:43:55 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:15 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-02-17 00:44:17 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-02-17 00:44:18 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:21 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:22 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:23 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:44:25 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:44:26 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 00:44:26 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:44:33 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:44:34 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 00:44:34 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-02-17 00:44:34 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1cd63735
