2023-02-17 01:04:29 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-02-17 01:04:29 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-02-17 01:04:59 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-02-17 01:04:59 INFO  - Session id - 1b746e76e136a94bb9209334ec64d32502f9de8e
2023-02-17 01:04:59 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-02-17 01:04:59 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:01 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:02 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 01:05:03 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-02-17 01:05:06 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:06 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-02-17 01:05:06 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:07 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:08 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:10 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-02-17 01:05:10 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:11 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:12 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:13 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:14 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000304
2023-02-17 01:05:14 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: The Great Influenza Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: Water for Elephants Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: The Tipping Point Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: The Pioneers Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: Goliath Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: Eldritch Tales Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: This Is Your Brain on Food Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - bookName: The Fritz Strafers A Story of the Great War Distributor: Palace Marketplace
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 8
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 01:05:15 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000304'
2023-02-17 01:05:16 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-02-17 01:05:16 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-02-17 01:05:19 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:05:25 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:05:25 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-02-17 01:05:47 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:05:48 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-02-17 01:05:48 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:06:09 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-02-17 01:06:29 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:06:31 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-02-17 01:06:31 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-02-17 01:06:31 INFO  - randomBookName: The Hunger
2023-02-17 01:06:31 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-17 01:06:31 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'The Hunger'
2023-02-17 01:06:33 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-02-17 01:06:37 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-17 01:06:38 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:06:39 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:06:45 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-02-17 01:06:45 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:06:46 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:06:46 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-02-17 01:06:47 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:06:48 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-02-17 01:06:48 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-02-17 01:07:07 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-02-17 01:07:07 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:07:08 INFO  - Step 12 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-02-17 01:07:08 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:07:09 INFO  - Step 13 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-02-17 01:07:09 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-02-17 01:07:09 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-02-17 01:07:11 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 01:07:11 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
  <head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

    <title>Unknown</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<h1 id="id_Toc469312251" class="block_8">Chapter 1: A Malevolent Guest</h1>
	<p class="block_9">"What now is bound must be undone, and only then is victory won." This couplet was inscribed at the entrance when I arrived. It appeared much newer than all the other inscriptions, yet it offered no further evidence of who had written it and what was meant by it. Indeed, I imagine this will be only the first of many tangled riddles that I must undo while I am here, alone at the top of the world.</p>
	<p class="block_9">They call this place the Twilight Library, and though I am uncertain as to the original origins of the name, it seems quite fitting now. The world wallows in darkness and ignorance, except for the place on which I now stand, which contains barely enough light to offer hope. Certainly, twilight is preferable to no light at all. Then again, a long night stands between the twilight and the dawn.</p>
	<p class="block_9">I remain uncertain about where to begin my search and wish that I had been able to bring Azil for company. Though he is my oldest friend, I doubt that the trek through the mountains would have agreed with him. As it is, I shall find myself jumping at every shadow, for the fate of the Library's former inhabitants also remains a mystery.</p>
	<p class="block_10">- From the Journal of Jamith, Day 1</p>
	<p class="block_11"> </p>
	<p class="block_12">Azil opened his mouth and released a bit of magical Essence into the air. He imagined impenetrable walls forming around him and shaped the released Essence into a spell of silence. He was about to speak to someone from a great distance and could not afford to be overheard during this conversation.</p>
	<p class="block_13">He allowed a few seconds for the spell to solidify and then sat in the cushioned seat of his desk chair. With a motion that felt like second nature, he removed the golden amulet from around his neck and placed it on a square of black silk that lay on the desk.</p>
	<p class="block_13">The amulet contained a trio of concentric rings, each inlaid with a single jewel of a different color. The outermost ring bore a red jewel, the next a blue jewel, and the final a gold one. With another familiar motion, he twisted each of the circles so that the jewels formed the points of an equilateral triangle.</p>
	<p class="block_13">The jewels flared with life, and the outlines of a familiar face appeared hovering in the air over the amulet. The image was an approximation of his oldest and dearest friend, a title he did not bestow lightly. It pained him a little every time he switched it on, like a sliver in his foot that he could not dislodge. The images, though welcome, were a reminder that he would likely never see his friend again in the flesh.</p>
	<p class="block_13">“Well Azil,” Jamith said, “two days until your little ball. Have you seen to your attire?”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil gave a tense smile. “Jamith, how long have you known me? My attire was the very first consideration I made. It is a Scarlatti function, so it is a bit more red than I usually allow myself, but at least it is for a good cause.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Jamith nodded. “And will you submit to skin conditioning? I hear the process grows more and more expensive.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">“Absolutely not,” Azil said. “It is bad enough that they all look like a bunch of living dralial fruit. Besides, the one time I attempted the process, it greatly upset my Reserve—worse indigestion than I have ever gotten from consuming regular food. You know how much worse a magical meal can feel when coming back up. I wouldn’t want to be caught unawares simply because I swapped out my usual magical meals for a bunch of skin conditioning materials, even if they would make me look like a noble.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">There was, of course, the fact that spending more on Sustenance would mean spending less on his clothing, a situation he simply could not abide. He wouldn’t have spent the money at all if missing a magical meal didn’t have a price worse than death. He had seen others undergo the awful process of becoming a Mal, and he had no desire to experience that firsthand.</p>
	<p class="block_13">The face hovering over the amulet bobbed as Jamith laughed. “Very well then, no conditioning for you. At least now I know that your vanity does have a limit. I suppose you have summoned me for the last piece of the puzzle.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil’s hand flew to his chest as he rose from his chair. “Old friend, must we assign such ulterior motives to every communication? I’ll have you know that it provides me no small degree of pleasure to gaze upon this approximation of your face. I am glad that we can converse only in this manner as the sight of your actual face might cause me to swoon with rapture.” Azil mimicked the act of swooning and then fell back into his chair, legs and arms sprawled.</p>
	<p class="block_13">“Don’t count on seeing my face anytime soon,” Jamith said. “The snow piles deeper and deeper on these mountains. I could consume naught but brimwort for a year and still not conjure enough fire to melt myself a way out. So for the time being, it will be just me and the books.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil leaned toward the picture. “All right, you’ve got me. Seeing as the ball is only two days away, I thought it wise to uncover the . . . stash, as it were. I think I can manage to keep it safe for two days.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Jamith blew out his cheeks and then rubbed his chin. “Perhaps we should wait until it’s closer to the ball, especially after your . . . incident with the Mal.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil’s hand found his heart. “Is that what Evelet’s visions tell you to do, or is this simply what you want to do? I do wish she would share more of the content of these prognostications. Perhaps she could tell me what the other lords and ladies will be wearing, so I can make sure to impress.” </p>
	<p class="block_13">Jamith chuckled, shaking his head. “It doesn’t work that way, I’m afraid. I cannot share her visions, but I trust her gifts. If she says that your attendance at the ball is part of the plan, then you would be wise to go.” </p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil pursed his lips, trying hard to muster his own confidence to match his friend’s confidence. “Then I swear by Rahim that it shall be so. I do not want to put this off until the last minute. As my mother once said, ‘Hasty work is a mistake—it doth in clothes a wrinkle make.’”</p>
	<p class="block_13">“Your mother was a wise woman,” Jamith said. He paused for a few moments and sighed. “Go to the tavern where we met as young men. Approach the bartender and ask him for a draught from Jamith’s Jug. He will offer you a drink, which you must immediately consume. Then leave through the back door, and the path will be clear to you.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">“I must protest,” Azil said before Jamith’s voice could die away. “I for one am still a young man. And simply being a hermit does not make you an old man either. I will do as you say, old friend.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Then Jamith jumped in. “Then why do you keep referring to me as ‘old friend’? I suppose this whole mess is just as much your fault as it is my fault. You—”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil thought he heard something outside his room and held up a hand for silence; Jamith fell silent. The barrier of silence kept all sounds in but did not prevent someone from coming in. </p>
	<p class="block_13">Only the constant drip from his water-based timepiece sounded in the room. Azil did not let down his guard. He reached with one hand into his pocket and withdrew a handful of red powder, which he pressed into an irregular pellet and then consumed.</p>
	<p class="block_13">It would take a few moments for him to process the material and to bring its Essence into his Reserve. He could try casting the spell right away, but it was better to be careful and allow a little extra time for his body to process the Sustenance completely. It was something his father had once taught him, along with the advice to wear a different colored waistcoat under your first choice just in case someone else at the event was wearing the same color. </p>
	<p class="block_13">The door to his study burst open, revealing the largest Mal that Azil had ever seen. It stood two heads taller than Azil and possessed multiple pairs of arms. Its hacked-off hands had been replaced with blades of various lengths. Unless this abomination moonlighted as a hedge trimmer, it served no other purpose than to butcher.</p>
	<p class="block_13">“I say,” Azil said, pointing to the fallen door, “that door cost me a great deal in bribes to smuggle it out of Keep Azura. It is quite valuable and could conceivably be reused. If you are going to slaughter me, kindly refrain from getting blood all over the door. Couldn’t we settle this in some other way?”</p>
	<p class="block_13">He grinned sardonically, his heart racing. True, he was a mage, but foremost, he was a scholar. How could he possibly best such a vicious opponent? Dread pooled in his chest as he studied the malformed face and realized this creature could never be reasoned with. </p>
	<p class="block_13">The creature opened its jaws abnormally wide and bellowed. </p>
	<p class="block_13">“My, my, aren’t you a piteous creature? It brings me no pleasure to fight you, but I suppose I should consider death an act of mercy for you.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Ignoring Azil’s words, the Mal lumbered forward with blades swinging. A wave of panic gripped him as he realized the Essence had not yet entered his Reserve. Maybe Jamith was right about his being old. A younger man would have a much faster magical metabolism. Azil’s body tensed as the Mal closed the space between them, and he considered his meager options.</p>
	<p class="block_13">The Mal swung all of its right arms at once, and Azil hit the floor to avoid them. Staying low, he scampered on all fours around the edge of the circular room and hoped that what he lacked in strength he could make up for in speed. His breath came in shallow gasps, and a cold sweat dripped from his brow. </p>
	<p class="block_13">Who is doing this to me? he thought. He did not exactly get along with many of the other court members, but he could not think of anyone who would actually want him dead. </p>
	<p class="block_13">Multiple blades came down in front of him again, and Azil stopped just in time to avoid being turned into a thinly sliced version of himself. The edge of his fine scarlet robe took the full brunt of the attack and tore away from Azil’s body.</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil shot to his feet. “Do you know what you have done? I was going to wear that to Keep Scarlatti for the next ball. I will now have to start over completely.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">As he finished his indignant speech, he felt the powder becoming part of his Reserve. He squared his shoulders and lifted his chin. “Oh, and one more thing, as my mother used to say, ‘When a mage nods—kneel.’” Azil exerted his will, turning the Essence into a poisonous rain that fell in torrents on the Mal. The creature barely cried out before the toxic magic dissolved him, leaving only a noxious pile of sludge.</p>
	<p class="block_13">When he was sure that everything had settled, Azil approached the pile, sniffed, and shook his head. He had not wanted to ruin his plush rug that depicted the cloudless night sky. He was grateful, though, that the door remained intact and that he would be around to reattach it.</p>
	<p class="block_13">His pulse pounded in his ears, and it was a few moments before he registered Jamith’s voice coming from the direction of his desk. The amulet lay face down on the floor, further inhibiting Jamith’s ability to be heard.</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil flipped the amulet right side up in his palm and grinned.</p>
	<p class="block_13">“What was that?” asked Jamith, his voice higher than usual. “It sounded like the wrath of Rahim himself descending upon your study.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil lifted both eyebrows. “A Mal assassin, about as ugly as can be imagined, but all brawn and no brains. Frankly, I’m a bit insulted that whoever tried to kill me didn’t make a more earnest attempt. Then again, if that was Rahim, I am in considerable trouble on multiple counts. Firstly, I reduced the attacker to a pile of unsightly sludge, for which I would be guilty of deuscide or whatever killing a god is called. Secondly, if that is what he actually looks like, then I have lost all faith in him. What good is wielding cosmic power if you cannot be bothered to dress presentably?”</p>
	<p class="block_13">“I imagine that you are guilty of nothing more than ruining a fine rug,” Jamith said. “Though I’m sure you made quick work of it, I’m happy to see you with your head still attached to your shoulders. Now go and retrieve the stash. Whoever tried to kill you will likely try again when they discover their failure. Stay close to Evelet and you’ll be safe.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil nodded, amazed at how well his friend still knew him. “Spot on, old friend. Might I ask, did you happen to have the foresight to include a rug in this stash of yours?” </p>
	<p class="block_13">Jamith laughed and shook his head. “Perhaps next time, my friend. I trust we’ll speak again soon.”</p>
	<p class="block_13">Jamith’s face faded, and Azil rested his elbows on the table and put his head in his hands. A tremor started in one hand and quickly moved to the other, but he was relieved he hadn’t shown his friend how close he had come to dying. Whoever had sent the creature would surely try again, and it was only a matter of time before one of the abominations succeeded. What good were fine rugs and fine clothing if you didn’t have the head to enjoy them?</p>
	<p class="block_13">Azil rose, trying to steady his nerves by moving around. He needed to get out of this place, far from all reminders of what had happened. His chest felt tight, his breathing was constricted, and his body was soaked in sweat.</p>
	<p class="block_5" id="calibre_pb_6">“Fresh air,” he muttered. “That would be just the thing. Fresh air and a stiff drink.”</p>
</body></html>
2023-02-17 01:07:11 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-02-17 01:07:11 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-02-17 01:07:35 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-02-17 01:07:35 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:07:36 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-02-17 01:07:56 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:17 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-02-17 01:08:18 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-02-17 01:08:20 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:22 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:23 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:24 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:26 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:08:26 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:08:27 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-02-17 01:08:27 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:08:35 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:08:35 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-02-17 01:08:35 INFO  - Unlocking credential for current thread
2023-02-17 01:08:35 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@1cd63735
