2023-03-08 00:58:48 INFO  - Scenario 'Font settings: Check of text theme' start
2023-03-08 00:58:48 INFO  - Setting application driver using the server on 'https://hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub'
2023-03-08 00:59:15 INFO  - Application on platform 'ANDROID' is ready...
2023-03-08 00:59:16 INFO  - Session id - f743177135b440358b528240143388b040a573fa
2023-03-08 00:59:16 INFO  - Step 0 - I add "LYRASIS Reads" account from welcomeScreen
2023-03-08 00:59:16 INFO  - Button 'btnCloseTutorial' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:18 INFO  - Button 'btnFindLibrary' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:19 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Clearing
2023-03-08 00:59:21 INFO  - Text Field 'Search' :: Typing 'LYRASIS Reads'
2023-03-08 00:59:24 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:24 INFO  - Step 1 - Account 'LYRASIS Reads' is present on Accounts screen
2023-03-08 00:59:25 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:28 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:28 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:30 INFO  - Step 2 - I enter credentials for 'LYRASIS Reads' account
2023-03-08 00:59:30 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:33 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:34 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:35 INFO  - Locking credential with barcode 01230000000305
2023-03-08 00:59:35 INFO  - There are books on the account: 
2023-03-08 00:59:36 INFO  - There is not books on the account.
2023-03-08 00:59:36 INFO  - Count of books on the account after opening account: 0
2023-03-08 00:59:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Clearing
2023-03-08 00:59:36 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Typing '01230000000305'
2023-03-08 00:59:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Clearing
2023-03-08 00:59:38 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Typing '********'
2023-03-08 00:59:41 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 00:59:46 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 00:59:47 INFO  - Step 3 - Login is performed successfully
2023-03-08 01:00:09 INFO  - Button 'Log ... action' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:00:09 INFO  - Step 4 - I open Catalog
2023-03-08 01:00:09 INFO  - Button 'tabCatalog' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:00:31 INFO  - Step 5 - I open search modal
2023-03-08 01:00:51 INFO  - Button 'Search' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:00:53 INFO  - Step 6 - I search 'available' book of distributor 'Palace Marketplace' and bookType 'EBOOK' from "LYRASIS Reads" and save as 'bookNameInfo'
2023-03-08 01:00:53 INFO  - Count of attempts to get random book name without bad symbols-1
2023-03-08 01:00:53 INFO  - randomBookName: Ahead of the Curve
2023-03-08 01:00:54 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-08 01:00:54 INFO  - Text Field 'Search value input' :: Sending keys 'Ahead of the Curve'
2023-03-08 01:00:58 INFO  - Error details button is not present
2023-03-08 01:01:00 INFO  - Step 7 - Click GET action button on EBOOK book with 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-08 01:01:02 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:01:03 INFO  - Button 'actionButton' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:01:09 INFO  - Step 8 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookNameInfo' bookName on catalog books screen and save book as 'bookInfo'
2023-03-08 01:01:11 INFO  - Label 'lblAuthor' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:01:12 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:01:12 INFO  - Step 9 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-08 01:01:13 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:01:14 INFO  - Step 10 - I scroll page forward from 7 to 9 times
2023-03-08 01:01:14 INFO  - Scrolling 8 times on reader epub screen
2023-03-08 01:01:38 INFO  - Step 11 - I open font settings
2023-03-08 01:01:38 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:01:39 INFO  - Step 12 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE
2023-03-08 01:01:39 INFO  - Button 'setThemeLight' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:01:40 INFO  - Step 13 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-08 01:01:41 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:01:41 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-08 01:01:42 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:01:42 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Ahead of the Curve: A Commonsense Guide to Forecasting Business and Market Cycles</title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="h1"><a id="page_ix"></a>Preface and Acknowledgments</h1>

  <p class="noindent">Almost everyone interested in the economy, from lay businesspeople and investors to the most sophisticated CEOs and investment managers, feels lost in the morass of anecdotal and often conflicting economic reports that fill daily newspapers and TV news broadcasts. While the accumulated flow of reports usually provides an underlying tone—“the economy is strong” or “the economy is getting weaker”—little of it is accessibly analytical, and the audience is generally left confused. The resulting sense of uncertainty in dealing with the economic and investment outlook is a universal problem for business managers, investment professionals, and individual investors.</p>

  <p class="indent">This book presents a methodology I developed over a twenty-five-year career as a Wall Street investment analyst for simplifying and clarifying the use of economic data in forecasting the basic direction of the economy and, with it, the likely direction of the stock market. From 1970 to 1994, I specialized in the analysis of the retail industry—its economic trends and the performance of individual companies within it. The ultimate purpose of my work was to advise clients of Goldman Sachs about the investment outlook for the retailing industry as a whole and the shares of individual retailers such as Wal-Mart, Federated Department Stores, and Gap.</p>

  <p class="indent">Early in my career, I came to realize that I simply could not wait for economic trends to manifest themselves in the stock market and in the sales and profits of the companies I was charged with covering. I had to see whether it was possible to get ahead of the curve in forecasting consumer spending and general economic trends. I couldn’t excuse myself from this task simply by noting that few economists themselves had been successful at this. As much for self-preservation, I suppose, as from curiosity, I began to investigate how I might develop an improved<a id="page_x"></a> method for forecasting consumer spending and, with it, the rest of the economy. Furthermore, I wanted to document the basis for my forecasts with such clarity that my clients would understand not only the forecast but also the rationale supporting it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I recognized that it would be essential to study the relationships among various economic indicators over many decades and economic cycles. The primary question in this endeavor would be: Were there consistent and repetitive cause-and-effect (i.e., predictive) relationships among these series in the past that might be used to forecast future developments?</p>

  <p class="indent">I soon discovered—with considerable excitement—that economic events are not as random and unpredictable as I had previously thought. There were numerous cause-and-effect relationships in the economy that had practical value in forecasting, but many of the most effective ones had gone largely underappreciated and underused, even in the world of professional economists. Some of these relationships were well known and others less so, but most had simply not been placed into an analytical framework or working discipline that allowed their effective use.</p>

  <p class="indent">Thus my task was to develop (1) a simplified, user-friendly method for monitoring and analyzing the various economic data series that describe economic advances and declines and equally, (2) a framework for understanding the <i>sequence</i> of events that manifests itself in a typical cycle. Intuitively, I recognized that it would not be possible to gain mental control of long columns of figures covering forty years or more of economic history. I found that only charts provided the means of visualizing whatever long-term relationships existed among key economic data series. I learned that, far from having to rely on anecdotal reportage about consumer confidence, durable-goods orders, interest rates, and “what Alan Greenspan is going to do,” I could actually <i>view</i> valuable cause-and-effect relationships among economic series that have repeated themselves cycle after cycle over many decades and remain highly relevant today. Essentially, via effective charting I could “see the economy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The four most dangerous words in assessing economic and stock market cycles are, “It’s different this time!” In fact, you will see in this<a id="page_xi"></a> book that almost every cycle over the past four decades has followed the same chronology of cause and effect, and often with a similar dimension of advance or decline in the various sectors of the economy. Far from finding more differences among cycles, I found greater similarities.</p>

  <p class="indent">This comforting discovery suggested that I could apply these findings to forecasting economic direction in future cycles. By tracking not the absolute numbers themselves, but the <i>rates of change</i> in the most effective leading indicators, I was usually (though not always) able to catch key inflection points—upturns and downturns in trend—ahead of the prevailing economic forecasts. In short, I became much more adept than I had been in predicting the next change of direction in the economy and positioning myself to take advantage of it.</p>

  <p class="indent">By the mid-1970s, I began using my charts of economic cause and effect in timing my forecasts of consumer spending, the outlook for retail stocks, and the stock market in general. Happily, my new method worked effectively and provided me with considerable competitive advantage in my work. I didn’t always catch the economic turning point far in advance, but my new discipline more often than not allowed me to position myself ahead of other investment professionals, and I always had a strong understanding of where we were in the cycle of the economy and the stock market. I have now successfully used the approach set forth here for enough years that I believe it has real value to the lay businessperson and investor. That is why I have written this book.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is About</h2>

  <p class="noindent">I would like you to think of this book as having two broad purposes:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• <i>To help us understand and then overcome major flaws in the way most economic information is reported and digested by the business, investment, and economist communities.</i> A new framework for analyzing economic data is essential if we are to foresee turning points in the economic cycle before most of the damage (or benefit) has already occurred. I have attempted to provide that perspective in <a href="../Text/07_part1.html">part I</a>.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xii"></a>• <i>To put this new framework to work in forecasting.</i> In <a href="../Text/14_part2.html">parts II</a> and <a href="../Text/17_part3.html">III</a>, we will identify and track the key drivers of economic cycles and the sequence of indicators as they unfold in economic advances and declines. In <a href="../Text/24_part4.html">part IV</a>, we will drill down a little deeper into the economy and apply the same approach to individual industries and even companies.</p>

  <p class="indent">The methodology detailed in this book results from empirical observations I developed and carefully recorded over my three decades as a working investment analyst on Wall Street. Using this approach, I was able to put the economy and the stock market into a context that made sense: where the economic cycle had been, where it was at the time, and where it was headed. When my leading indicators were equivocal, I was equivocal; however, when the leading indicators pointed unequivocally upward or downward, I was unequivocal in my forecasts. Throughout this book, I also relate the stock market to the chronology of events that occurs in every economic cycle, because the stock market itself is a key economic indicator and obviously of great importance.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Key Findings</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Let me simplify here the key premises of this book so that, having a preliminary grasp of its findings from the outset, you can make the best use of it as we travel through it together.</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Cause-and-effect relationships among key economic indicators, and the sequences in which they occur, repeat themselves in cycle after cycle. These relationships can thus be used to forecast future economic cycles.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. To put these relationships to work, we must first correct several key flaws in the way economic data are typically reported and analyzed. These flaws include the following:</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The overreliance by most observers on “recession”—(two successive quarters of <i>absolute decline</i> in the economy)—as the key measure of economic harm. Recession is, in fact, such a lagging indicator of a slowing economy that it is largely useless<a id="page_xiii"></a> to business managers and investors. Most damage to the economy and the stock market is done when <i>rates of growth</i> in consumer spending and other economic drivers <i>peak</i> and begin to slow. This decline in growth rates typically precedes recession (again, an <i>absolute decline</i> in economic activity) by as much as a year. Thus if we are to get ahead of the curve, we must train ourselves to spot the early stages of declining rates of growth, rather than recession, as the key measure of economic downturns.</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The widespread practice of measuring economic data on a quarter-versus-previous-quarter or even month-to-month basis. This attempt to provide short-term sensitivity to economic trends, although a laudable goal, in fact creates such noise and confusion that it obfuscates valid and underlying relationships among economic data series.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. <a href="../Text/12_chapter5.html">Chapter 5</a> shows that tracking and analyzing economic data series, based on <i>year-over-year rates of change,</i> provides a clarity that enhances our ability to use these series to predict future events. I employ the acronym ROCET (rate of change in economic tracking) to describe a preferred new approach to monitoring economic data. Once we master these technicalities, we will see that charting is the analytical method by which we can best track one economic data series versus another to reveal their predictive capabilities.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Consumer spending is by far the largest part of the U.S. economy, and drives the rate of economic change in most other economic sectors. Other sectors of the economy simply don’t have the size or causal characteristics to be more than secondary drivers of the business cycle. As obvious as this fact is, it is not heeded by economic forecasters to the extent it should be. If we can predict turning points in consumer spending, we can also successfully predict inflection points in the economy at large and, often, the stock market. This book follows the sequence of events that begins with consumers’ real (unit) hourly earnings—my favorite leading indicator of consumer spending—and<a id="page_xiv"></a> proceeds through the demand chain to consumer spending, industrial production, capital spending, and corporate profits.</p>

  <p class="hang">5. <i>Lagging</i> economic indicators, such as employment and capital (business) spending, are often mistakenly viewed as primary economic drivers. These lagging indicators therefore can actually deceive the unwary into remaining positive well past the peak in the economy and stock market and remaining pessimistic well beyond the trough. Identifying these laggards helps us sit above the fray as others become lost in it.</p>

  <p class="hang">6. To forecast uptrends and downtrends in a number of individual industry sectors, we can drill down beneath the macro economy. You may well find smaller components that will help you forecast the demand cycle for your own industry or company.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre1en1" id="pre1en_1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">The Two Poles of Economic Discourse</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Books and other publications on the economy have tended to move toward two poles, each of which has left us, as lay readers, with few tools to employ and little to pursue in forecasting the economy as we seek to maximize our business and investments.</p>

  <p class="indent">The first is purely verbal, often devoid of any seeming dependence on, or relationship to, real numbers. Many of these deal with consumer and business psychology—for example, how consumers and businesses make investment and purchase decisions, rationally or irrationally. These verbal discourses may offer valuable and even entertaining insights and are more easily read, but invariably lack a pragmatic <i>working discipline</i> for forecasting. This leaves us with no process or prospects for looking forward at the economy—which can only be measured and predicted in terms of <i>numbers</i>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The second direction—the polar opposite of the first—belongs to the mathematicians and theoreticians, whose complex formulae and hypotheses represent the highest level of statistical thinking in academia, but are accessible only to those few scholars who have reached this level of study. More importantly, few theories emanating from this realm have actually proved readily usable in the real worlds of business<a id="page_xv"></a> and investment, and have been totally inaccessible to lay audiences. Bottom line: if these abstruse approaches had resulted in more accurate forecasting of economic and stock-market directions and turning points, we might accept their value and simply use them, despite our personal inabilities to comprehend the processes themselves. However, this has not been the case.</p>

  <p class="indent">In both cases, our inability as lay users (and I include in this group professional businesspeople and investors) to perceive the <i>working discipline</i> in the forecasting process results in the high level of uncertainty we all feel. Ironically, this makes our lives easier: we simply throw our hands into the air, conclude that there is little to be done, and relieve ourselves of any analytical effort beyond listening to the evening news! We thus settle into a state of conveniently lazy resignation.</p>

  <p class="indent">I have written this book in the belief that there is an accessible and pragmatic middle ground between these poles of economic discourse. We must begin with the recognition that developing a forecasting discipline for the economy and stock market warrants a somewhat higher level of ongoing effort. Adopting <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s methodology will ask more of you—a bit of time and intellectual engagement in mastering a simplified, working-discipline approach to understanding the economy and its elusive companion, the stock market. However, the main tools you will need are free. It’s really not very hard, and this book will show you how.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is Not</h2>

  <p class="noindent"><i>Ahead of the Curve</i> is not an economics textbook, nor is it meant to be a complete survey of all key subjects relating to the economy. Its purpose is, quite simply, to help place into context the confusing array of economic data series we receive daily. Occasionally I have been asked why I do not spend more time referencing the considerable body of scholarly work relating to many of the economic indicators discussed herein. The answer itself is a sort of statement of purpose for the book: as described earlier, although a good deal of worthy theoretical and diagnostic work has been done at both the macro- and the microeconomic level, much of it has been conducted at abstruse levels not accessible to<a id="page_xvi"></a> most readers. In many instances, the practical benefit of such work is not apparent to businesspeople, investors, and policy makers who need to forecast the economy. This book is about empirical, statistical observation of how key economic indicators have played out in past cycles, and it is geared to pragmatic forecasting of the macro economy and the stock market in a framework that is comprehensible and usable to those who lack advanced degrees in economics, mathematics, or psychology. Unless a hypothesis can be shown to have <i>clear practical value in forecasting</i>—in terms that are understandable to lay businesspeople and investors—it does not fall within the mission of this book.</p>

  <p class="indent">For example, <i>Ahead of the Curve</i> does not delve into the increasingly popular field of behavioral economics. There is no denying that psychology and behavior play a role in the economy, particularly when major political and international events (wars, terrorism, etc.) are involved; however, these effects are primarily event-driven and therefore highly unpredictable. Furthermore, the charts in this book suggest few instances in which psychology trumped statistical economic indicators in forecasting. Anecdotal and difficult-to-measure political and psychological factors often make interesting reading, but in my opinion they remain part of the nebulous minefield that we must skirt as we establish a <i>working discipline</i> for tracking the primary drivers that make more successful forecasting possible.</p>

  <p class="indent">In addition, I have not dealt with some undeniably important economic subjects that now and then play a significant role in the economic cycle but more often are secondary in their effects. For example, major imbalances in foreign trade and significant related surpluses or deficits in the balance of payments can be major factors at any given time. Indeed, as I write, the United States has a major trade deficit that is resulting in (1) an uncomfortably high share of U.S. national debt being held by other countries, (2) a dollar that remains weak against other currencies, and (3) the possibility of sharply rising interest rates to keep foreign and domestic investors buying U.S. debt. Although this situation may have a material effect on the U.S. economy over the next several years, it is not a factor that regularly plays a principal role—as opposed to a secondary (one of many) role—in determining the course of our economic cycle. As an economic subject, it certainly deserves major investigation in economic textbooks, but it does not lend itself to<a id="page_xvii"></a> this book’s analytical discipline based on the repeating primary drivers that require our closest focus in forecasting of the economy year after year and cycle after cycle.</p>

  <p class="indent">We might view the economic cycle as being a bit like the four seasons of the year, always occurring in the same sequence. Affected by extraneous forces, some summers will be warmer than others, and some winters colder. But summer will always come and will be warm, and winter will always come and be cold. We will see that, in the same way, economic cycles by their nature are reflected in uptrends and downtrends, some of which are longer, others shorter, some reaching higher-than-normal rates of growth, and still others sagging to greater declines. But my charts reveal that the sequence of leading and lagging economic indicators rarely changes, just as leaves will always fall from the trees before the snows arrive. This book is designed to do two things: highlight those indicators and sequences that have proven to have predictive value, and render them accessible for the purpose of predicting business and stock market cycles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many if not most of the indicators and relationships I emphasize are well known to academic economists, but the framework and methodology are, I believe, novel. In emphasizing the importance of accessibility to non-academics interested in the economy and the stock market, I do not mean to suggest that this book would not prove useful in the realm of academic economics as well. Indeed it is my hope that it will.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">About the Charts</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book includes numerous charts. Many—occupying a full page to accommodate more than forty years of data—demonstrate that the cause-and-effect relationships explained in the text really do occur as described. Most juxtapose, over four or more decades, as many as four variables:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• One line representing an economic data series that is a leading—or causal—indicator.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• A second line that is the lagging indicator—that is, one whose direction is likely driven by the first line.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xviii"></a>• Vertical shaded bars representing stock market declines. These allow us to assess where, in the cycles defined by the two economic data series, stock prices were in a state of decline.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• Black bars (at the bottoms of the charts) denoting a recession. As I have noted, a recession typically is identified too late to be of use to either businesses or investors.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">As you read the charts you will have to come to grips with all four variables if you are to place these economic indictors into context with the stock market and recession. These large-scale historical charts are crucial, for they provide the needed proof that these cause-and-effect relationships have played themselves out in the economy in much the same way cycle after cycle. You can judge for yourself whether the case for each one is compelling. Without these charts and that proof, the forecasting discipline established in this book would mean little. Forecasting economic and stock-market cycles and turning points is more science than art and depends, I believe, on sound statistical/empirical disciplines. Theory alone, without documentation that is accessible to the lay reader, has little value.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2"><a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a></h2>

  <p class="noindent">I am confident that you will find many of the charted cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive in providing a new understanding of sequential developments in the economy and as the basis for greatly improving your forecasting. Obviously the charts in this book are static, with most of the data ending as of 2004. As time goes on, you will need additional data if you are to put these charts to use. To make this process easier, we have created a companion Web site for this book: <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a>. This site contains URLs for the economic data series for nineteen of the most important charts in the book (listed in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">Appendix D</a>), which will allow you easily to access the data series at government Web sites and other bureaus that report this data, so that you may create and update your own charts. As a further service to readers of this book, <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com</a> will maintain monthly updated versions of these nineteen<a id="page_xix"></a> charts, so that in the future you may easily refer to them for an updated perspective on the current economic and stock market outlook. The material on the Web site is free regardless of whether you purchase the book. I hope that this will allow <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s precepts to be of the greatest value to you over an extended period of time.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">How to Use This Book</h2>

  <p class="noindent">If you are company CEO or business unit head, I urge you to do the following:</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Identify a computer-literate and clear-thinking associate in your corporate planning department to read this book and master the methodology for creating cause-and-effect charts.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. Work with this associate and your corporate planning department to identify leading indicators at both the macro- and the microeconomic levels that might pertain to your company, your division, or the category of your product or service.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. Create charts that provide the best perspective on economic developments that will affect your business and give you the best chance for forecasting the business cycle in your sector.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Arrange for monthly distribution and review of the charts, accompanied by simple and comprehensible observations.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">This process is potentially important not only for company and divisional CEOs and business managers but also for all professional and private investors, most of whom currently rely strictly on conventional economic forecasts. Investors would do well to establish their own empirical economic tracking and analytical disciplines based on the cause-and-effect charting methods offered in this book, at both the macro and the industry level.</p>

  <p class="indent">If you are a professional investment manager or an individual investor, you will benefit from the charting method, established in <a href="../Text/15_chapter7.html">chapter 7</a>, of marking bear markets with vertical gray bars as a means of comparing stock market declines against key economic indicators over forty or more years of charted history.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre2en2" id="pre2en_2"><sup>2</sup></a> The results show, in many cases,<a id="page_xx"></a> remarkable consistency in the timing of bull and bear markets versus key economic indicators. And the disciplined application of the consistent sequence among consumer spending, industrial production, and capital spending will certainly help analysts and investors in these sectors to understand the order in which companies in these sectors participate in economic uptrends and downtrends, with commensurate effects on the performance of their stocks.</p>

  <p class="indent">To lay readers, I urge you to put this method to work in your own business or portfolio. If you find several of the cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive, go to the Web sites provided in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">appendix D</a> and download the two series—a leading series and a lagging one—beginning with 1960. Thereafter, simply update and observe the progress of the series each month, using the leading series to forecast the lagging one. Or you may take a far easier course and simply go to <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a> and view the nineteen charts that will be maintained on an updated basis there.</p>

  <p class="indent">In this way, you will gain economic perspective and begin to reduce your dependence on economic blurbs in newspapers and fifteen-second economic reports on the evening news. These are economically volatile times, at home and abroad, and we are flooded with information. It is hard to know how to interpret most of the data and analysis that flow our way. Ahead of the Curve is intended to bring analytical discipline and context to your evaluation of economic reporting and to empower you in enhancing your understanding of the outlook for the business cycle and the stock market.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Acknowledgments</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book, from its concepts to its individual charts and exhibits, is the result of more than three decades of work with my talented associates at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Company. It began with my colleagues Ellen R. Harris and Marcia Krieger in the 1970s, long before personal computers facilitated the easy retrieval, manipulation, and charting of economic data. In those days, data were obtained from government journals; rates of change were tabulated on a mechanical calculator or even a slide rule; and charts were drawn by laboriously pasting taped lines on<a id="page_xxi"></a> large white posterboards, which were then photographed for publication. The work continued during the 1980s and early 1990s with the help of my able statistical assistant, Felicia Sotillo, to whom the original production of many of the charts in this book can be attributed. We made great strides in recent years with the skill and hard work of my associates Karim Mirshak, Sophia Savul, Stephanie Froes, and Prashant Bothra, each of whom contributed fresh ideas as plans for this book took shape. I am particularly indebted to Prashant for his hard work and commitment to detail as work with my editors at Harvard Business School Press intensified.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate over many years to work with retail-analyst colleagues Stephen Mandel, David Bolotsky, George Strachan, and Matthew Fassler, who not only used this forecasting method but also added to its efficacy. And I can never sufficiently thank my administrative assistant for more than eighteen years, Julie Loprete, whose exceptional capabilities and friendship supported all my efforts at Goldman Sachs.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many learned colleagues, friends, and advisers have read drafts of the book at various stages and have contributed to its content. These include the following:</p>

  <p class="block">William Dudley, chief U.S. economist, and Jan Hatzius, senior economist, of Goldman Sachs, who offered important guidance on economic issues during the early writing.</p>

  <p class="block">Barrie Wigmore, retired partner of Goldman Sachs and author of <i>The Crash and Its Aftermath: A History of the Securities Markets in the United States, 1929–1933</i> and <i>Securities Markets in the 1980s: The New Regime, 1979–1984.</i></p>

  <p class="block">John Sweeney, president and CEO of Swiss RE Company and an accomplished economist and investment thinker.</p>

  <p class="block">Morris Williams, partner of Miller Anderson &amp; Sherrard, for his wise guidance in clarifying the structure of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Gary Loveman, CEO of Harrah’s and former associate professor of business administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, an accomplished economist in his own right.</p>

  <p class="block">John Gilbertson of Goldman Sachs, whose incisive observations regarding the chronology of the economic cycle and charting<a id="page_xxii"></a> methods helped significantly at the early stages in the writing of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Bernie Sosnick of Oppenheimer &amp; Co., who provided wise advice at the very earliest stages of this project.</p>

  <p class="block">Brian Thomas of Swiss RE Company, good friend and most astute reader, whose thoughtful commentary on the book helped me improve its readability.</p>

  <p class="block">David Larr, a longtime family friend and expert in the organization, possibilities, and vagaries of historic economic data.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">I have indeed been fortunate to gain the good counsel of my son, Jonathan Ellis, and my daughter, Claire Ellis. Jon, a professor of philosophy, thoroughly reviewed key parts of the draft, provided important observations with a nuance worthy of his field, and helped develop the concept of asymmetrical circular causality. Claire, who spent a number of years in book marketing and publicity, has been of great value in thinking through the marketing aspects of the book.</p>

  <p class="indent">Finally, I have been extraordinarily fortunate in the editorial assistance I have received in the later stage of the writing and final preparation of the book. Victoria Larson, formerly of Texere, a business publishing firm, expertly guided me through a first reorganization of the draft before its submission to Harvard Business School Press.</p>

  <p class="indent">I am deeply indebted to Jacque Murphy, my principal editor at Harvard Business School Press, who quickly identified important issues of organization and readability in earlier drafts. She and her associates skillfully guided me through the entire process of preparation and publication.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate to work with Jane Isay in reorganizing and bringing greater narrative life to this book. The subject matter is, of course, often technical and intense, and Jane showed the way to increase the book’s readability and accessibility. I am also most grateful to Jane for leading me to Julia Kagan, who took full charge of the many figures and tables in this book and with unflagging dedication saw to their accuracy, consistency, and placement. She also identified and worked with Bruce Campbell of Bruce Campbell Design, who with equal ardor adapted the data and charts I used at Goldman Sachs over the years into a format appropriate for this book. Without Jane, Julia, and Bruce, I would not have been able to complete this project.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_xxiii"></a>Finally, I am deeply grateful to my wife, Barbara, for her patience and understanding over the several years during which this book absorbed much of my spare time that otherwise might have gone to being with her and our family. I am truly blessed to have had this support.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-08 01:01:42 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:01:43 INFO  - Step 14 - I restart app
2023-03-08 01:02:07 INFO  - Step 15 - I open Books
2023-03-08 01:02:07 INFO  - Button 'tabBooks' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:09 INFO  - Step 16 - Open EBOOK book with READ action button and 'bookInfo' bookInfo on books screen
2023-03-08 01:02:09 INFO  - Label 'lblBookName' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:10 INFO  - Step 17 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-08 01:02:12 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:13 INFO  - Step 18 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-08 01:02:13 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:02:14 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:02:15 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:02:15 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-08 01:02:17 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:17 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Ahead of the Curve: A Commonsense Guide to Forecasting Business and Market Cycles</title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="h1"><a id="page_ix"></a>Preface and Acknowledgments</h1>

  <p class="noindent">Almost everyone interested in the economy, from lay businesspeople and investors to the most sophisticated CEOs and investment managers, feels lost in the morass of anecdotal and often conflicting economic reports that fill daily newspapers and TV news broadcasts. While the accumulated flow of reports usually provides an underlying tone—“the economy is strong” or “the economy is getting weaker”—little of it is accessibly analytical, and the audience is generally left confused. The resulting sense of uncertainty in dealing with the economic and investment outlook is a universal problem for business managers, investment professionals, and individual investors.</p>

  <p class="indent">This book presents a methodology I developed over a twenty-five-year career as a Wall Street investment analyst for simplifying and clarifying the use of economic data in forecasting the basic direction of the economy and, with it, the likely direction of the stock market. From 1970 to 1994, I specialized in the analysis of the retail industry—its economic trends and the performance of individual companies within it. The ultimate purpose of my work was to advise clients of Goldman Sachs about the investment outlook for the retailing industry as a whole and the shares of individual retailers such as Wal-Mart, Federated Department Stores, and Gap.</p>

  <p class="indent">Early in my career, I came to realize that I simply could not wait for economic trends to manifest themselves in the stock market and in the sales and profits of the companies I was charged with covering. I had to see whether it was possible to get ahead of the curve in forecasting consumer spending and general economic trends. I couldn’t excuse myself from this task simply by noting that few economists themselves had been successful at this. As much for self-preservation, I suppose, as from curiosity, I began to investigate how I might develop an improved<a id="page_x"></a> method for forecasting consumer spending and, with it, the rest of the economy. Furthermore, I wanted to document the basis for my forecasts with such clarity that my clients would understand not only the forecast but also the rationale supporting it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I recognized that it would be essential to study the relationships among various economic indicators over many decades and economic cycles. The primary question in this endeavor would be: Were there consistent and repetitive cause-and-effect (i.e., predictive) relationships among these series in the past that might be used to forecast future developments?</p>

  <p class="indent">I soon discovered—with considerable excitement—that economic events are not as random and unpredictable as I had previously thought. There were numerous cause-and-effect relationships in the economy that had practical value in forecasting, but many of the most effective ones had gone largely underappreciated and underused, even in the world of professional economists. Some of these relationships were well known and others less so, but most had simply not been placed into an analytical framework or working discipline that allowed their effective use.</p>

  <p class="indent">Thus my task was to develop (1) a simplified, user-friendly method for monitoring and analyzing the various economic data series that describe economic advances and declines and equally, (2) a framework for understanding the <i>sequence</i> of events that manifests itself in a typical cycle. Intuitively, I recognized that it would not be possible to gain mental control of long columns of figures covering forty years or more of economic history. I found that only charts provided the means of visualizing whatever long-term relationships existed among key economic data series. I learned that, far from having to rely on anecdotal reportage about consumer confidence, durable-goods orders, interest rates, and “what Alan Greenspan is going to do,” I could actually <i>view</i> valuable cause-and-effect relationships among economic series that have repeated themselves cycle after cycle over many decades and remain highly relevant today. Essentially, via effective charting I could “see the economy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The four most dangerous words in assessing economic and stock market cycles are, “It’s different this time!” In fact, you will see in this<a id="page_xi"></a> book that almost every cycle over the past four decades has followed the same chronology of cause and effect, and often with a similar dimension of advance or decline in the various sectors of the economy. Far from finding more differences among cycles, I found greater similarities.</p>

  <p class="indent">This comforting discovery suggested that I could apply these findings to forecasting economic direction in future cycles. By tracking not the absolute numbers themselves, but the <i>rates of change</i> in the most effective leading indicators, I was usually (though not always) able to catch key inflection points—upturns and downturns in trend—ahead of the prevailing economic forecasts. In short, I became much more adept than I had been in predicting the next change of direction in the economy and positioning myself to take advantage of it.</p>

  <p class="indent">By the mid-1970s, I began using my charts of economic cause and effect in timing my forecasts of consumer spending, the outlook for retail stocks, and the stock market in general. Happily, my new method worked effectively and provided me with considerable competitive advantage in my work. I didn’t always catch the economic turning point far in advance, but my new discipline more often than not allowed me to position myself ahead of other investment professionals, and I always had a strong understanding of where we were in the cycle of the economy and the stock market. I have now successfully used the approach set forth here for enough years that I believe it has real value to the lay businessperson and investor. That is why I have written this book.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is About</h2>

  <p class="noindent">I would like you to think of this book as having two broad purposes:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• <i>To help us understand and then overcome major flaws in the way most economic information is reported and digested by the business, investment, and economist communities.</i> A new framework for analyzing economic data is essential if we are to foresee turning points in the economic cycle before most of the damage (or benefit) has already occurred. I have attempted to provide that perspective in <a href="../Text/07_part1.html">part I</a>.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xii"></a>• <i>To put this new framework to work in forecasting.</i> In <a href="../Text/14_part2.html">parts II</a> and <a href="../Text/17_part3.html">III</a>, we will identify and track the key drivers of economic cycles and the sequence of indicators as they unfold in economic advances and declines. In <a href="../Text/24_part4.html">part IV</a>, we will drill down a little deeper into the economy and apply the same approach to individual industries and even companies.</p>

  <p class="indent">The methodology detailed in this book results from empirical observations I developed and carefully recorded over my three decades as a working investment analyst on Wall Street. Using this approach, I was able to put the economy and the stock market into a context that made sense: where the economic cycle had been, where it was at the time, and where it was headed. When my leading indicators were equivocal, I was equivocal; however, when the leading indicators pointed unequivocally upward or downward, I was unequivocal in my forecasts. Throughout this book, I also relate the stock market to the chronology of events that occurs in every economic cycle, because the stock market itself is a key economic indicator and obviously of great importance.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Key Findings</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Let me simplify here the key premises of this book so that, having a preliminary grasp of its findings from the outset, you can make the best use of it as we travel through it together.</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Cause-and-effect relationships among key economic indicators, and the sequences in which they occur, repeat themselves in cycle after cycle. These relationships can thus be used to forecast future economic cycles.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. To put these relationships to work, we must first correct several key flaws in the way economic data are typically reported and analyzed. These flaws include the following:</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The overreliance by most observers on “recession”—(two successive quarters of <i>absolute decline</i> in the economy)—as the key measure of economic harm. Recession is, in fact, such a lagging indicator of a slowing economy that it is largely useless<a id="page_xiii"></a> to business managers and investors. Most damage to the economy and the stock market is done when <i>rates of growth</i> in consumer spending and other economic drivers <i>peak</i> and begin to slow. This decline in growth rates typically precedes recession (again, an <i>absolute decline</i> in economic activity) by as much as a year. Thus if we are to get ahead of the curve, we must train ourselves to spot the early stages of declining rates of growth, rather than recession, as the key measure of economic downturns.</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The widespread practice of measuring economic data on a quarter-versus-previous-quarter or even month-to-month basis. This attempt to provide short-term sensitivity to economic trends, although a laudable goal, in fact creates such noise and confusion that it obfuscates valid and underlying relationships among economic data series.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. <a href="../Text/12_chapter5.html">Chapter 5</a> shows that tracking and analyzing economic data series, based on <i>year-over-year rates of change,</i> provides a clarity that enhances our ability to use these series to predict future events. I employ the acronym ROCET (rate of change in economic tracking) to describe a preferred new approach to monitoring economic data. Once we master these technicalities, we will see that charting is the analytical method by which we can best track one economic data series versus another to reveal their predictive capabilities.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Consumer spending is by far the largest part of the U.S. economy, and drives the rate of economic change in most other economic sectors. Other sectors of the economy simply don’t have the size or causal characteristics to be more than secondary drivers of the business cycle. As obvious as this fact is, it is not heeded by economic forecasters to the extent it should be. If we can predict turning points in consumer spending, we can also successfully predict inflection points in the economy at large and, often, the stock market. This book follows the sequence of events that begins with consumers’ real (unit) hourly earnings—my favorite leading indicator of consumer spending—and<a id="page_xiv"></a> proceeds through the demand chain to consumer spending, industrial production, capital spending, and corporate profits.</p>

  <p class="hang">5. <i>Lagging</i> economic indicators, such as employment and capital (business) spending, are often mistakenly viewed as primary economic drivers. These lagging indicators therefore can actually deceive the unwary into remaining positive well past the peak in the economy and stock market and remaining pessimistic well beyond the trough. Identifying these laggards helps us sit above the fray as others become lost in it.</p>

  <p class="hang">6. To forecast uptrends and downtrends in a number of individual industry sectors, we can drill down beneath the macro economy. You may well find smaller components that will help you forecast the demand cycle for your own industry or company.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre1en1" id="pre1en_1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">The Two Poles of Economic Discourse</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Books and other publications on the economy have tended to move toward two poles, each of which has left us, as lay readers, with few tools to employ and little to pursue in forecasting the economy as we seek to maximize our business and investments.</p>

  <p class="indent">The first is purely verbal, often devoid of any seeming dependence on, or relationship to, real numbers. Many of these deal with consumer and business psychology—for example, how consumers and businesses make investment and purchase decisions, rationally or irrationally. These verbal discourses may offer valuable and even entertaining insights and are more easily read, but invariably lack a pragmatic <i>working discipline</i> for forecasting. This leaves us with no process or prospects for looking forward at the economy—which can only be measured and predicted in terms of <i>numbers</i>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The second direction—the polar opposite of the first—belongs to the mathematicians and theoreticians, whose complex formulae and hypotheses represent the highest level of statistical thinking in academia, but are accessible only to those few scholars who have reached this level of study. More importantly, few theories emanating from this realm have actually proved readily usable in the real worlds of business<a id="page_xv"></a> and investment, and have been totally inaccessible to lay audiences. Bottom line: if these abstruse approaches had resulted in more accurate forecasting of economic and stock-market directions and turning points, we might accept their value and simply use them, despite our personal inabilities to comprehend the processes themselves. However, this has not been the case.</p>

  <p class="indent">In both cases, our inability as lay users (and I include in this group professional businesspeople and investors) to perceive the <i>working discipline</i> in the forecasting process results in the high level of uncertainty we all feel. Ironically, this makes our lives easier: we simply throw our hands into the air, conclude that there is little to be done, and relieve ourselves of any analytical effort beyond listening to the evening news! We thus settle into a state of conveniently lazy resignation.</p>

  <p class="indent">I have written this book in the belief that there is an accessible and pragmatic middle ground between these poles of economic discourse. We must begin with the recognition that developing a forecasting discipline for the economy and stock market warrants a somewhat higher level of ongoing effort. Adopting <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s methodology will ask more of you—a bit of time and intellectual engagement in mastering a simplified, working-discipline approach to understanding the economy and its elusive companion, the stock market. However, the main tools you will need are free. It’s really not very hard, and this book will show you how.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is Not</h2>

  <p class="noindent"><i>Ahead of the Curve</i> is not an economics textbook, nor is it meant to be a complete survey of all key subjects relating to the economy. Its purpose is, quite simply, to help place into context the confusing array of economic data series we receive daily. Occasionally I have been asked why I do not spend more time referencing the considerable body of scholarly work relating to many of the economic indicators discussed herein. The answer itself is a sort of statement of purpose for the book: as described earlier, although a good deal of worthy theoretical and diagnostic work has been done at both the macro- and the microeconomic level, much of it has been conducted at abstruse levels not accessible to<a id="page_xvi"></a> most readers. In many instances, the practical benefit of such work is not apparent to businesspeople, investors, and policy makers who need to forecast the economy. This book is about empirical, statistical observation of how key economic indicators have played out in past cycles, and it is geared to pragmatic forecasting of the macro economy and the stock market in a framework that is comprehensible and usable to those who lack advanced degrees in economics, mathematics, or psychology. Unless a hypothesis can be shown to have <i>clear practical value in forecasting</i>—in terms that are understandable to lay businesspeople and investors—it does not fall within the mission of this book.</p>

  <p class="indent">For example, <i>Ahead of the Curve</i> does not delve into the increasingly popular field of behavioral economics. There is no denying that psychology and behavior play a role in the economy, particularly when major political and international events (wars, terrorism, etc.) are involved; however, these effects are primarily event-driven and therefore highly unpredictable. Furthermore, the charts in this book suggest few instances in which psychology trumped statistical economic indicators in forecasting. Anecdotal and difficult-to-measure political and psychological factors often make interesting reading, but in my opinion they remain part of the nebulous minefield that we must skirt as we establish a <i>working discipline</i> for tracking the primary drivers that make more successful forecasting possible.</p>

  <p class="indent">In addition, I have not dealt with some undeniably important economic subjects that now and then play a significant role in the economic cycle but more often are secondary in their effects. For example, major imbalances in foreign trade and significant related surpluses or deficits in the balance of payments can be major factors at any given time. Indeed, as I write, the United States has a major trade deficit that is resulting in (1) an uncomfortably high share of U.S. national debt being held by other countries, (2) a dollar that remains weak against other currencies, and (3) the possibility of sharply rising interest rates to keep foreign and domestic investors buying U.S. debt. Although this situation may have a material effect on the U.S. economy over the next several years, it is not a factor that regularly plays a principal role—as opposed to a secondary (one of many) role—in determining the course of our economic cycle. As an economic subject, it certainly deserves major investigation in economic textbooks, but it does not lend itself to<a id="page_xvii"></a> this book’s analytical discipline based on the repeating primary drivers that require our closest focus in forecasting of the economy year after year and cycle after cycle.</p>

  <p class="indent">We might view the economic cycle as being a bit like the four seasons of the year, always occurring in the same sequence. Affected by extraneous forces, some summers will be warmer than others, and some winters colder. But summer will always come and will be warm, and winter will always come and be cold. We will see that, in the same way, economic cycles by their nature are reflected in uptrends and downtrends, some of which are longer, others shorter, some reaching higher-than-normal rates of growth, and still others sagging to greater declines. But my charts reveal that the sequence of leading and lagging economic indicators rarely changes, just as leaves will always fall from the trees before the snows arrive. This book is designed to do two things: highlight those indicators and sequences that have proven to have predictive value, and render them accessible for the purpose of predicting business and stock market cycles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many if not most of the indicators and relationships I emphasize are well known to academic economists, but the framework and methodology are, I believe, novel. In emphasizing the importance of accessibility to non-academics interested in the economy and the stock market, I do not mean to suggest that this book would not prove useful in the realm of academic economics as well. Indeed it is my hope that it will.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">About the Charts</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book includes numerous charts. Many—occupying a full page to accommodate more than forty years of data—demonstrate that the cause-and-effect relationships explained in the text really do occur as described. Most juxtapose, over four or more decades, as many as four variables:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• One line representing an economic data series that is a leading—or causal—indicator.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• A second line that is the lagging indicator—that is, one whose direction is likely driven by the first line.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xviii"></a>• Vertical shaded bars representing stock market declines. These allow us to assess where, in the cycles defined by the two economic data series, stock prices were in a state of decline.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• Black bars (at the bottoms of the charts) denoting a recession. As I have noted, a recession typically is identified too late to be of use to either businesses or investors.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">As you read the charts you will have to come to grips with all four variables if you are to place these economic indictors into context with the stock market and recession. These large-scale historical charts are crucial, for they provide the needed proof that these cause-and-effect relationships have played themselves out in the economy in much the same way cycle after cycle. You can judge for yourself whether the case for each one is compelling. Without these charts and that proof, the forecasting discipline established in this book would mean little. Forecasting economic and stock-market cycles and turning points is more science than art and depends, I believe, on sound statistical/empirical disciplines. Theory alone, without documentation that is accessible to the lay reader, has little value.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2"><a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a></h2>

  <p class="noindent">I am confident that you will find many of the charted cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive in providing a new understanding of sequential developments in the economy and as the basis for greatly improving your forecasting. Obviously the charts in this book are static, with most of the data ending as of 2004. As time goes on, you will need additional data if you are to put these charts to use. To make this process easier, we have created a companion Web site for this book: <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a>. This site contains URLs for the economic data series for nineteen of the most important charts in the book (listed in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">Appendix D</a>), which will allow you easily to access the data series at government Web sites and other bureaus that report this data, so that you may create and update your own charts. As a further service to readers of this book, <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com</a> will maintain monthly updated versions of these nineteen<a id="page_xix"></a> charts, so that in the future you may easily refer to them for an updated perspective on the current economic and stock market outlook. The material on the Web site is free regardless of whether you purchase the book. I hope that this will allow <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s precepts to be of the greatest value to you over an extended period of time.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">How to Use This Book</h2>

  <p class="noindent">If you are company CEO or business unit head, I urge you to do the following:</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Identify a computer-literate and clear-thinking associate in your corporate planning department to read this book and master the methodology for creating cause-and-effect charts.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. Work with this associate and your corporate planning department to identify leading indicators at both the macro- and the microeconomic levels that might pertain to your company, your division, or the category of your product or service.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. Create charts that provide the best perspective on economic developments that will affect your business and give you the best chance for forecasting the business cycle in your sector.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Arrange for monthly distribution and review of the charts, accompanied by simple and comprehensible observations.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">This process is potentially important not only for company and divisional CEOs and business managers but also for all professional and private investors, most of whom currently rely strictly on conventional economic forecasts. Investors would do well to establish their own empirical economic tracking and analytical disciplines based on the cause-and-effect charting methods offered in this book, at both the macro and the industry level.</p>

  <p class="indent">If you are a professional investment manager or an individual investor, you will benefit from the charting method, established in <a href="../Text/15_chapter7.html">chapter 7</a>, of marking bear markets with vertical gray bars as a means of comparing stock market declines against key economic indicators over forty or more years of charted history.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre2en2" id="pre2en_2"><sup>2</sup></a> The results show, in many cases,<a id="page_xx"></a> remarkable consistency in the timing of bull and bear markets versus key economic indicators. And the disciplined application of the consistent sequence among consumer spending, industrial production, and capital spending will certainly help analysts and investors in these sectors to understand the order in which companies in these sectors participate in economic uptrends and downtrends, with commensurate effects on the performance of their stocks.</p>

  <p class="indent">To lay readers, I urge you to put this method to work in your own business or portfolio. If you find several of the cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive, go to the Web sites provided in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">appendix D</a> and download the two series—a leading series and a lagging one—beginning with 1960. Thereafter, simply update and observe the progress of the series each month, using the leading series to forecast the lagging one. Or you may take a far easier course and simply go to <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a> and view the nineteen charts that will be maintained on an updated basis there.</p>

  <p class="indent">In this way, you will gain economic perspective and begin to reduce your dependence on economic blurbs in newspapers and fifteen-second economic reports on the evening news. These are economically volatile times, at home and abroad, and we are flooded with information. It is hard to know how to interpret most of the data and analysis that flow our way. Ahead of the Curve is intended to bring analytical discipline and context to your evaluation of economic reporting and to empower you in enhancing your understanding of the outlook for the business cycle and the stock market.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Acknowledgments</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book, from its concepts to its individual charts and exhibits, is the result of more than three decades of work with my talented associates at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Company. It began with my colleagues Ellen R. Harris and Marcia Krieger in the 1970s, long before personal computers facilitated the easy retrieval, manipulation, and charting of economic data. In those days, data were obtained from government journals; rates of change were tabulated on a mechanical calculator or even a slide rule; and charts were drawn by laboriously pasting taped lines on<a id="page_xxi"></a> large white posterboards, which were then photographed for publication. The work continued during the 1980s and early 1990s with the help of my able statistical assistant, Felicia Sotillo, to whom the original production of many of the charts in this book can be attributed. We made great strides in recent years with the skill and hard work of my associates Karim Mirshak, Sophia Savul, Stephanie Froes, and Prashant Bothra, each of whom contributed fresh ideas as plans for this book took shape. I am particularly indebted to Prashant for his hard work and commitment to detail as work with my editors at Harvard Business School Press intensified.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate over many years to work with retail-analyst colleagues Stephen Mandel, David Bolotsky, George Strachan, and Matthew Fassler, who not only used this forecasting method but also added to its efficacy. And I can never sufficiently thank my administrative assistant for more than eighteen years, Julie Loprete, whose exceptional capabilities and friendship supported all my efforts at Goldman Sachs.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many learned colleagues, friends, and advisers have read drafts of the book at various stages and have contributed to its content. These include the following:</p>

  <p class="block">William Dudley, chief U.S. economist, and Jan Hatzius, senior economist, of Goldman Sachs, who offered important guidance on economic issues during the early writing.</p>

  <p class="block">Barrie Wigmore, retired partner of Goldman Sachs and author of <i>The Crash and Its Aftermath: A History of the Securities Markets in the United States, 1929–1933</i> and <i>Securities Markets in the 1980s: The New Regime, 1979–1984.</i></p>

  <p class="block">John Sweeney, president and CEO of Swiss RE Company and an accomplished economist and investment thinker.</p>

  <p class="block">Morris Williams, partner of Miller Anderson &amp; Sherrard, for his wise guidance in clarifying the structure of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Gary Loveman, CEO of Harrah’s and former associate professor of business administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, an accomplished economist in his own right.</p>

  <p class="block">John Gilbertson of Goldman Sachs, whose incisive observations regarding the chronology of the economic cycle and charting<a id="page_xxii"></a> methods helped significantly at the early stages in the writing of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Bernie Sosnick of Oppenheimer &amp; Co., who provided wise advice at the very earliest stages of this project.</p>

  <p class="block">Brian Thomas of Swiss RE Company, good friend and most astute reader, whose thoughtful commentary on the book helped me improve its readability.</p>

  <p class="block">David Larr, a longtime family friend and expert in the organization, possibilities, and vagaries of historic economic data.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">I have indeed been fortunate to gain the good counsel of my son, Jonathan Ellis, and my daughter, Claire Ellis. Jon, a professor of philosophy, thoroughly reviewed key parts of the draft, provided important observations with a nuance worthy of his field, and helped develop the concept of asymmetrical circular causality. Claire, who spent a number of years in book marketing and publicity, has been of great value in thinking through the marketing aspects of the book.</p>

  <p class="indent">Finally, I have been extraordinarily fortunate in the editorial assistance I have received in the later stage of the writing and final preparation of the book. Victoria Larson, formerly of Texere, a business publishing firm, expertly guided me through a first reorganization of the draft before its submission to Harvard Business School Press.</p>

  <p class="indent">I am deeply indebted to Jacque Murphy, my principal editor at Harvard Business School Press, who quickly identified important issues of organization and readability in earlier drafts. She and her associates skillfully guided me through the entire process of preparation and publication.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate to work with Jane Isay in reorganizing and bringing greater narrative life to this book. The subject matter is, of course, often technical and intense, and Jane showed the way to increase the book’s readability and accessibility. I am also most grateful to Jane for leading me to Julia Kagan, who took full charge of the many figures and tables in this book and with unflagging dedication saw to their accuracy, consistency, and placement. She also identified and worked with Bruce Campbell of Bruce Campbell Design, who with equal ardor adapted the data and charts I used at Goldman Sachs over the years into a format appropriate for this book. Without Jane, Julia, and Bruce, I would not have been able to complete this project.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_xxiii"></a>Finally, I am deeply grateful to my wife, Barbara, for her patience and understanding over the several years during which this book absorbed much of my spare time that otherwise might have gone to being with her and our family. I am truly blessed to have had this support.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-08 01:02:17 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:18 INFO  - Step 19 - I return to previous screen from epub
2023-03-08 01:02:19 INFO  - Button 'btnBack' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:19 INFO  - Step 20 - Click READ action button on book details screen
2023-03-08 01:02:21 INFO  - Button 'Read' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:21 INFO  - Step 21 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_WHITE background is correct
2023-03-08 01:02:22 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:02:22 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-08 01:02:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:23 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Ahead of the Curve: A Commonsense Guide to Forecasting Business and Market Cycles</title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="h1"><a id="page_ix"></a>Preface and Acknowledgments</h1>

  <p class="noindent">Almost everyone interested in the economy, from lay businesspeople and investors to the most sophisticated CEOs and investment managers, feels lost in the morass of anecdotal and often conflicting economic reports that fill daily newspapers and TV news broadcasts. While the accumulated flow of reports usually provides an underlying tone—“the economy is strong” or “the economy is getting weaker”—little of it is accessibly analytical, and the audience is generally left confused. The resulting sense of uncertainty in dealing with the economic and investment outlook is a universal problem for business managers, investment professionals, and individual investors.</p>

  <p class="indent">This book presents a methodology I developed over a twenty-five-year career as a Wall Street investment analyst for simplifying and clarifying the use of economic data in forecasting the basic direction of the economy and, with it, the likely direction of the stock market. From 1970 to 1994, I specialized in the analysis of the retail industry—its economic trends and the performance of individual companies within it. The ultimate purpose of my work was to advise clients of Goldman Sachs about the investment outlook for the retailing industry as a whole and the shares of individual retailers such as Wal-Mart, Federated Department Stores, and Gap.</p>

  <p class="indent">Early in my career, I came to realize that I simply could not wait for economic trends to manifest themselves in the stock market and in the sales and profits of the companies I was charged with covering. I had to see whether it was possible to get ahead of the curve in forecasting consumer spending and general economic trends. I couldn’t excuse myself from this task simply by noting that few economists themselves had been successful at this. As much for self-preservation, I suppose, as from curiosity, I began to investigate how I might develop an improved<a id="page_x"></a> method for forecasting consumer spending and, with it, the rest of the economy. Furthermore, I wanted to document the basis for my forecasts with such clarity that my clients would understand not only the forecast but also the rationale supporting it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I recognized that it would be essential to study the relationships among various economic indicators over many decades and economic cycles. The primary question in this endeavor would be: Were there consistent and repetitive cause-and-effect (i.e., predictive) relationships among these series in the past that might be used to forecast future developments?</p>

  <p class="indent">I soon discovered—with considerable excitement—that economic events are not as random and unpredictable as I had previously thought. There were numerous cause-and-effect relationships in the economy that had practical value in forecasting, but many of the most effective ones had gone largely underappreciated and underused, even in the world of professional economists. Some of these relationships were well known and others less so, but most had simply not been placed into an analytical framework or working discipline that allowed their effective use.</p>

  <p class="indent">Thus my task was to develop (1) a simplified, user-friendly method for monitoring and analyzing the various economic data series that describe economic advances and declines and equally, (2) a framework for understanding the <i>sequence</i> of events that manifests itself in a typical cycle. Intuitively, I recognized that it would not be possible to gain mental control of long columns of figures covering forty years or more of economic history. I found that only charts provided the means of visualizing whatever long-term relationships existed among key economic data series. I learned that, far from having to rely on anecdotal reportage about consumer confidence, durable-goods orders, interest rates, and “what Alan Greenspan is going to do,” I could actually <i>view</i> valuable cause-and-effect relationships among economic series that have repeated themselves cycle after cycle over many decades and remain highly relevant today. Essentially, via effective charting I could “see the economy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The four most dangerous words in assessing economic and stock market cycles are, “It’s different this time!” In fact, you will see in this<a id="page_xi"></a> book that almost every cycle over the past four decades has followed the same chronology of cause and effect, and often with a similar dimension of advance or decline in the various sectors of the economy. Far from finding more differences among cycles, I found greater similarities.</p>

  <p class="indent">This comforting discovery suggested that I could apply these findings to forecasting economic direction in future cycles. By tracking not the absolute numbers themselves, but the <i>rates of change</i> in the most effective leading indicators, I was usually (though not always) able to catch key inflection points—upturns and downturns in trend—ahead of the prevailing economic forecasts. In short, I became much more adept than I had been in predicting the next change of direction in the economy and positioning myself to take advantage of it.</p>

  <p class="indent">By the mid-1970s, I began using my charts of economic cause and effect in timing my forecasts of consumer spending, the outlook for retail stocks, and the stock market in general. Happily, my new method worked effectively and provided me with considerable competitive advantage in my work. I didn’t always catch the economic turning point far in advance, but my new discipline more often than not allowed me to position myself ahead of other investment professionals, and I always had a strong understanding of where we were in the cycle of the economy and the stock market. I have now successfully used the approach set forth here for enough years that I believe it has real value to the lay businessperson and investor. That is why I have written this book.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is About</h2>

  <p class="noindent">I would like you to think of this book as having two broad purposes:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• <i>To help us understand and then overcome major flaws in the way most economic information is reported and digested by the business, investment, and economist communities.</i> A new framework for analyzing economic data is essential if we are to foresee turning points in the economic cycle before most of the damage (or benefit) has already occurred. I have attempted to provide that perspective in <a href="../Text/07_part1.html">part I</a>.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xii"></a>• <i>To put this new framework to work in forecasting.</i> In <a href="../Text/14_part2.html">parts II</a> and <a href="../Text/17_part3.html">III</a>, we will identify and track the key drivers of economic cycles and the sequence of indicators as they unfold in economic advances and declines. In <a href="../Text/24_part4.html">part IV</a>, we will drill down a little deeper into the economy and apply the same approach to individual industries and even companies.</p>

  <p class="indent">The methodology detailed in this book results from empirical observations I developed and carefully recorded over my three decades as a working investment analyst on Wall Street. Using this approach, I was able to put the economy and the stock market into a context that made sense: where the economic cycle had been, where it was at the time, and where it was headed. When my leading indicators were equivocal, I was equivocal; however, when the leading indicators pointed unequivocally upward or downward, I was unequivocal in my forecasts. Throughout this book, I also relate the stock market to the chronology of events that occurs in every economic cycle, because the stock market itself is a key economic indicator and obviously of great importance.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Key Findings</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Let me simplify here the key premises of this book so that, having a preliminary grasp of its findings from the outset, you can make the best use of it as we travel through it together.</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Cause-and-effect relationships among key economic indicators, and the sequences in which they occur, repeat themselves in cycle after cycle. These relationships can thus be used to forecast future economic cycles.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. To put these relationships to work, we must first correct several key flaws in the way economic data are typically reported and analyzed. These flaws include the following:</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The overreliance by most observers on “recession”—(two successive quarters of <i>absolute decline</i> in the economy)—as the key measure of economic harm. Recession is, in fact, such a lagging indicator of a slowing economy that it is largely useless<a id="page_xiii"></a> to business managers and investors. Most damage to the economy and the stock market is done when <i>rates of growth</i> in consumer spending and other economic drivers <i>peak</i> and begin to slow. This decline in growth rates typically precedes recession (again, an <i>absolute decline</i> in economic activity) by as much as a year. Thus if we are to get ahead of the curve, we must train ourselves to spot the early stages of declining rates of growth, rather than recession, as the key measure of economic downturns.</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The widespread practice of measuring economic data on a quarter-versus-previous-quarter or even month-to-month basis. This attempt to provide short-term sensitivity to economic trends, although a laudable goal, in fact creates such noise and confusion that it obfuscates valid and underlying relationships among economic data series.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. <a href="../Text/12_chapter5.html">Chapter 5</a> shows that tracking and analyzing economic data series, based on <i>year-over-year rates of change,</i> provides a clarity that enhances our ability to use these series to predict future events. I employ the acronym ROCET (rate of change in economic tracking) to describe a preferred new approach to monitoring economic data. Once we master these technicalities, we will see that charting is the analytical method by which we can best track one economic data series versus another to reveal their predictive capabilities.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Consumer spending is by far the largest part of the U.S. economy, and drives the rate of economic change in most other economic sectors. Other sectors of the economy simply don’t have the size or causal characteristics to be more than secondary drivers of the business cycle. As obvious as this fact is, it is not heeded by economic forecasters to the extent it should be. If we can predict turning points in consumer spending, we can also successfully predict inflection points in the economy at large and, often, the stock market. This book follows the sequence of events that begins with consumers’ real (unit) hourly earnings—my favorite leading indicator of consumer spending—and<a id="page_xiv"></a> proceeds through the demand chain to consumer spending, industrial production, capital spending, and corporate profits.</p>

  <p class="hang">5. <i>Lagging</i> economic indicators, such as employment and capital (business) spending, are often mistakenly viewed as primary economic drivers. These lagging indicators therefore can actually deceive the unwary into remaining positive well past the peak in the economy and stock market and remaining pessimistic well beyond the trough. Identifying these laggards helps us sit above the fray as others become lost in it.</p>

  <p class="hang">6. To forecast uptrends and downtrends in a number of individual industry sectors, we can drill down beneath the macro economy. You may well find smaller components that will help you forecast the demand cycle for your own industry or company.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre1en1" id="pre1en_1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">The Two Poles of Economic Discourse</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Books and other publications on the economy have tended to move toward two poles, each of which has left us, as lay readers, with few tools to employ and little to pursue in forecasting the economy as we seek to maximize our business and investments.</p>

  <p class="indent">The first is purely verbal, often devoid of any seeming dependence on, or relationship to, real numbers. Many of these deal with consumer and business psychology—for example, how consumers and businesses make investment and purchase decisions, rationally or irrationally. These verbal discourses may offer valuable and even entertaining insights and are more easily read, but invariably lack a pragmatic <i>working discipline</i> for forecasting. This leaves us with no process or prospects for looking forward at the economy—which can only be measured and predicted in terms of <i>numbers</i>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The second direction—the polar opposite of the first—belongs to the mathematicians and theoreticians, whose complex formulae and hypotheses represent the highest level of statistical thinking in academia, but are accessible only to those few scholars who have reached this level of study. More importantly, few theories emanating from this realm have actually proved readily usable in the real worlds of business<a id="page_xv"></a> and investment, and have been totally inaccessible to lay audiences. Bottom line: if these abstruse approaches had resulted in more accurate forecasting of economic and stock-market directions and turning points, we might accept their value and simply use them, despite our personal inabilities to comprehend the processes themselves. However, this has not been the case.</p>

  <p class="indent">In both cases, our inability as lay users (and I include in this group professional businesspeople and investors) to perceive the <i>working discipline</i> in the forecasting process results in the high level of uncertainty we all feel. Ironically, this makes our lives easier: we simply throw our hands into the air, conclude that there is little to be done, and relieve ourselves of any analytical effort beyond listening to the evening news! We thus settle into a state of conveniently lazy resignation.</p>

  <p class="indent">I have written this book in the belief that there is an accessible and pragmatic middle ground between these poles of economic discourse. We must begin with the recognition that developing a forecasting discipline for the economy and stock market warrants a somewhat higher level of ongoing effort. Adopting <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s methodology will ask more of you—a bit of time and intellectual engagement in mastering a simplified, working-discipline approach to understanding the economy and its elusive companion, the stock market. However, the main tools you will need are free. It’s really not very hard, and this book will show you how.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is Not</h2>

  <p class="noindent"><i>Ahead of the Curve</i> is not an economics textbook, nor is it meant to be a complete survey of all key subjects relating to the economy. Its purpose is, quite simply, to help place into context the confusing array of economic data series we receive daily. Occasionally I have been asked why I do not spend more time referencing the considerable body of scholarly work relating to many of the economic indicators discussed herein. The answer itself is a sort of statement of purpose for the book: as described earlier, although a good deal of worthy theoretical and diagnostic work has been done at both the macro- and the microeconomic level, much of it has been conducted at abstruse levels not accessible to<a id="page_xvi"></a> most readers. In many instances, the practical benefit of such work is not apparent to businesspeople, investors, and policy makers who need to forecast the economy. This book is about empirical, statistical observation of how key economic indicators have played out in past cycles, and it is geared to pragmatic forecasting of the macro economy and the stock market in a framework that is comprehensible and usable to those who lack advanced degrees in economics, mathematics, or psychology. Unless a hypothesis can be shown to have <i>clear practical value in forecasting</i>—in terms that are understandable to lay businesspeople and investors—it does not fall within the mission of this book.</p>

  <p class="indent">For example, <i>Ahead of the Curve</i> does not delve into the increasingly popular field of behavioral economics. There is no denying that psychology and behavior play a role in the economy, particularly when major political and international events (wars, terrorism, etc.) are involved; however, these effects are primarily event-driven and therefore highly unpredictable. Furthermore, the charts in this book suggest few instances in which psychology trumped statistical economic indicators in forecasting. Anecdotal and difficult-to-measure political and psychological factors often make interesting reading, but in my opinion they remain part of the nebulous minefield that we must skirt as we establish a <i>working discipline</i> for tracking the primary drivers that make more successful forecasting possible.</p>

  <p class="indent">In addition, I have not dealt with some undeniably important economic subjects that now and then play a significant role in the economic cycle but more often are secondary in their effects. For example, major imbalances in foreign trade and significant related surpluses or deficits in the balance of payments can be major factors at any given time. Indeed, as I write, the United States has a major trade deficit that is resulting in (1) an uncomfortably high share of U.S. national debt being held by other countries, (2) a dollar that remains weak against other currencies, and (3) the possibility of sharply rising interest rates to keep foreign and domestic investors buying U.S. debt. Although this situation may have a material effect on the U.S. economy over the next several years, it is not a factor that regularly plays a principal role—as opposed to a secondary (one of many) role—in determining the course of our economic cycle. As an economic subject, it certainly deserves major investigation in economic textbooks, but it does not lend itself to<a id="page_xvii"></a> this book’s analytical discipline based on the repeating primary drivers that require our closest focus in forecasting of the economy year after year and cycle after cycle.</p>

  <p class="indent">We might view the economic cycle as being a bit like the four seasons of the year, always occurring in the same sequence. Affected by extraneous forces, some summers will be warmer than others, and some winters colder. But summer will always come and will be warm, and winter will always come and be cold. We will see that, in the same way, economic cycles by their nature are reflected in uptrends and downtrends, some of which are longer, others shorter, some reaching higher-than-normal rates of growth, and still others sagging to greater declines. But my charts reveal that the sequence of leading and lagging economic indicators rarely changes, just as leaves will always fall from the trees before the snows arrive. This book is designed to do two things: highlight those indicators and sequences that have proven to have predictive value, and render them accessible for the purpose of predicting business and stock market cycles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many if not most of the indicators and relationships I emphasize are well known to academic economists, but the framework and methodology are, I believe, novel. In emphasizing the importance of accessibility to non-academics interested in the economy and the stock market, I do not mean to suggest that this book would not prove useful in the realm of academic economics as well. Indeed it is my hope that it will.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">About the Charts</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book includes numerous charts. Many—occupying a full page to accommodate more than forty years of data—demonstrate that the cause-and-effect relationships explained in the text really do occur as described. Most juxtapose, over four or more decades, as many as four variables:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• One line representing an economic data series that is a leading—or causal—indicator.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• A second line that is the lagging indicator—that is, one whose direction is likely driven by the first line.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xviii"></a>• Vertical shaded bars representing stock market declines. These allow us to assess where, in the cycles defined by the two economic data series, stock prices were in a state of decline.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• Black bars (at the bottoms of the charts) denoting a recession. As I have noted, a recession typically is identified too late to be of use to either businesses or investors.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">As you read the charts you will have to come to grips with all four variables if you are to place these economic indictors into context with the stock market and recession. These large-scale historical charts are crucial, for they provide the needed proof that these cause-and-effect relationships have played themselves out in the economy in much the same way cycle after cycle. You can judge for yourself whether the case for each one is compelling. Without these charts and that proof, the forecasting discipline established in this book would mean little. Forecasting economic and stock-market cycles and turning points is more science than art and depends, I believe, on sound statistical/empirical disciplines. Theory alone, without documentation that is accessible to the lay reader, has little value.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2"><a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a></h2>

  <p class="noindent">I am confident that you will find many of the charted cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive in providing a new understanding of sequential developments in the economy and as the basis for greatly improving your forecasting. Obviously the charts in this book are static, with most of the data ending as of 2004. As time goes on, you will need additional data if you are to put these charts to use. To make this process easier, we have created a companion Web site for this book: <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a>. This site contains URLs for the economic data series for nineteen of the most important charts in the book (listed in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">Appendix D</a>), which will allow you easily to access the data series at government Web sites and other bureaus that report this data, so that you may create and update your own charts. As a further service to readers of this book, <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com</a> will maintain monthly updated versions of these nineteen<a id="page_xix"></a> charts, so that in the future you may easily refer to them for an updated perspective on the current economic and stock market outlook. The material on the Web site is free regardless of whether you purchase the book. I hope that this will allow <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s precepts to be of the greatest value to you over an extended period of time.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">How to Use This Book</h2>

  <p class="noindent">If you are company CEO or business unit head, I urge you to do the following:</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Identify a computer-literate and clear-thinking associate in your corporate planning department to read this book and master the methodology for creating cause-and-effect charts.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. Work with this associate and your corporate planning department to identify leading indicators at both the macro- and the microeconomic levels that might pertain to your company, your division, or the category of your product or service.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. Create charts that provide the best perspective on economic developments that will affect your business and give you the best chance for forecasting the business cycle in your sector.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Arrange for monthly distribution and review of the charts, accompanied by simple and comprehensible observations.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">This process is potentially important not only for company and divisional CEOs and business managers but also for all professional and private investors, most of whom currently rely strictly on conventional economic forecasts. Investors would do well to establish their own empirical economic tracking and analytical disciplines based on the cause-and-effect charting methods offered in this book, at both the macro and the industry level.</p>

  <p class="indent">If you are a professional investment manager or an individual investor, you will benefit from the charting method, established in <a href="../Text/15_chapter7.html">chapter 7</a>, of marking bear markets with vertical gray bars as a means of comparing stock market declines against key economic indicators over forty or more years of charted history.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre2en2" id="pre2en_2"><sup>2</sup></a> The results show, in many cases,<a id="page_xx"></a> remarkable consistency in the timing of bull and bear markets versus key economic indicators. And the disciplined application of the consistent sequence among consumer spending, industrial production, and capital spending will certainly help analysts and investors in these sectors to understand the order in which companies in these sectors participate in economic uptrends and downtrends, with commensurate effects on the performance of their stocks.</p>

  <p class="indent">To lay readers, I urge you to put this method to work in your own business or portfolio. If you find several of the cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive, go to the Web sites provided in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">appendix D</a> and download the two series—a leading series and a lagging one—beginning with 1960. Thereafter, simply update and observe the progress of the series each month, using the leading series to forecast the lagging one. Or you may take a far easier course and simply go to <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a> and view the nineteen charts that will be maintained on an updated basis there.</p>

  <p class="indent">In this way, you will gain economic perspective and begin to reduce your dependence on economic blurbs in newspapers and fifteen-second economic reports on the evening news. These are economically volatile times, at home and abroad, and we are flooded with information. It is hard to know how to interpret most of the data and analysis that flow our way. Ahead of the Curve is intended to bring analytical discipline and context to your evaluation of economic reporting and to empower you in enhancing your understanding of the outlook for the business cycle and the stock market.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Acknowledgments</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book, from its concepts to its individual charts and exhibits, is the result of more than three decades of work with my talented associates at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Company. It began with my colleagues Ellen R. Harris and Marcia Krieger in the 1970s, long before personal computers facilitated the easy retrieval, manipulation, and charting of economic data. In those days, data were obtained from government journals; rates of change were tabulated on a mechanical calculator or even a slide rule; and charts were drawn by laboriously pasting taped lines on<a id="page_xxi"></a> large white posterboards, which were then photographed for publication. The work continued during the 1980s and early 1990s with the help of my able statistical assistant, Felicia Sotillo, to whom the original production of many of the charts in this book can be attributed. We made great strides in recent years with the skill and hard work of my associates Karim Mirshak, Sophia Savul, Stephanie Froes, and Prashant Bothra, each of whom contributed fresh ideas as plans for this book took shape. I am particularly indebted to Prashant for his hard work and commitment to detail as work with my editors at Harvard Business School Press intensified.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate over many years to work with retail-analyst colleagues Stephen Mandel, David Bolotsky, George Strachan, and Matthew Fassler, who not only used this forecasting method but also added to its efficacy. And I can never sufficiently thank my administrative assistant for more than eighteen years, Julie Loprete, whose exceptional capabilities and friendship supported all my efforts at Goldman Sachs.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many learned colleagues, friends, and advisers have read drafts of the book at various stages and have contributed to its content. These include the following:</p>

  <p class="block">William Dudley, chief U.S. economist, and Jan Hatzius, senior economist, of Goldman Sachs, who offered important guidance on economic issues during the early writing.</p>

  <p class="block">Barrie Wigmore, retired partner of Goldman Sachs and author of <i>The Crash and Its Aftermath: A History of the Securities Markets in the United States, 1929–1933</i> and <i>Securities Markets in the 1980s: The New Regime, 1979–1984.</i></p>

  <p class="block">John Sweeney, president and CEO of Swiss RE Company and an accomplished economist and investment thinker.</p>

  <p class="block">Morris Williams, partner of Miller Anderson &amp; Sherrard, for his wise guidance in clarifying the structure of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Gary Loveman, CEO of Harrah’s and former associate professor of business administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, an accomplished economist in his own right.</p>

  <p class="block">John Gilbertson of Goldman Sachs, whose incisive observations regarding the chronology of the economic cycle and charting<a id="page_xxii"></a> methods helped significantly at the early stages in the writing of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Bernie Sosnick of Oppenheimer &amp; Co., who provided wise advice at the very earliest stages of this project.</p>

  <p class="block">Brian Thomas of Swiss RE Company, good friend and most astute reader, whose thoughtful commentary on the book helped me improve its readability.</p>

  <p class="block">David Larr, a longtime family friend and expert in the organization, possibilities, and vagaries of historic economic data.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">I have indeed been fortunate to gain the good counsel of my son, Jonathan Ellis, and my daughter, Claire Ellis. Jon, a professor of philosophy, thoroughly reviewed key parts of the draft, provided important observations with a nuance worthy of his field, and helped develop the concept of asymmetrical circular causality. Claire, who spent a number of years in book marketing and publicity, has been of great value in thinking through the marketing aspects of the book.</p>

  <p class="indent">Finally, I have been extraordinarily fortunate in the editorial assistance I have received in the later stage of the writing and final preparation of the book. Victoria Larson, formerly of Texere, a business publishing firm, expertly guided me through a first reorganization of the draft before its submission to Harvard Business School Press.</p>

  <p class="indent">I am deeply indebted to Jacque Murphy, my principal editor at Harvard Business School Press, who quickly identified important issues of organization and readability in earlier drafts. She and her associates skillfully guided me through the entire process of preparation and publication.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate to work with Jane Isay in reorganizing and bringing greater narrative life to this book. The subject matter is, of course, often technical and intense, and Jane showed the way to increase the book’s readability and accessibility. I am also most grateful to Jane for leading me to Julia Kagan, who took full charge of the many figures and tables in this book and with unflagging dedication saw to their accuracy, consistency, and placement. She also identified and worked with Bruce Campbell of Bruce Campbell Design, who with equal ardor adapted the data and charts I used at Goldman Sachs over the years into a format appropriate for this book. Without Jane, Julia, and Bruce, I would not have been able to complete this project.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_xxiii"></a>Finally, I am deeply grateful to my wife, Barbara, for her patience and understanding over the several years during which this book absorbed much of my spare time that otherwise might have gone to being with her and our family. I am truly blessed to have had this support.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-08 01:02:23 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:24 INFO  - Step 22 - I open font settings
2023-03-08 01:02:25 INFO  - Button 'btnFontSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:26 INFO  - Step 23 - I change contrast to BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA
2023-03-08 01:02:26 INFO  - Button 'setThemeSepia' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:27 INFO  - Step 24 - The BLACK_TEXT_ON_SEPIA background is correct
2023-03-08 01:02:27 INFO  - context - NATIVE_APP
2023-03-08 01:02:27 INFO  - context - WEBVIEW_org.thepalaceproject.palace
2023-03-08 01:02:28 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsStart+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:29 INFO  - <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="--RS__viewportWidth:calc(1440px / 3.5); --USER__fontFamily:sans-serif; --USER__fontOverride:readium-font-on; --USER__appearance:readium-default-on; --USER__fontSize:100%; --USER__advancedSettings:readium-advanced-on; --USER__scroll:readium-scroll-off;">
<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, height=device-height, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0" /><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-before.css" />

  <title>Ahead of the Curve: A Commonsense Guide to Forecasting Business and Market Cycles</title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/readium-css/ReadiumCSS-after.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/gestures.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/scripts/highlight.js"></script>
<style>@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=PT+Serif|Roboto|Source+Sans+Pro|Vollkorn');</style>
<style type="text/css"> @font-face{font-family: "OpenDyslexic"; src:url("/assets/fonts/OpenDyslexic-Regular.otf") format('truetype');}</style>
</head>

<body>
  <h1 class="h1"><a id="page_ix"></a>Preface and Acknowledgments</h1>

  <p class="noindent">Almost everyone interested in the economy, from lay businesspeople and investors to the most sophisticated CEOs and investment managers, feels lost in the morass of anecdotal and often conflicting economic reports that fill daily newspapers and TV news broadcasts. While the accumulated flow of reports usually provides an underlying tone—“the economy is strong” or “the economy is getting weaker”—little of it is accessibly analytical, and the audience is generally left confused. The resulting sense of uncertainty in dealing with the economic and investment outlook is a universal problem for business managers, investment professionals, and individual investors.</p>

  <p class="indent">This book presents a methodology I developed over a twenty-five-year career as a Wall Street investment analyst for simplifying and clarifying the use of economic data in forecasting the basic direction of the economy and, with it, the likely direction of the stock market. From 1970 to 1994, I specialized in the analysis of the retail industry—its economic trends and the performance of individual companies within it. The ultimate purpose of my work was to advise clients of Goldman Sachs about the investment outlook for the retailing industry as a whole and the shares of individual retailers such as Wal-Mart, Federated Department Stores, and Gap.</p>

  <p class="indent">Early in my career, I came to realize that I simply could not wait for economic trends to manifest themselves in the stock market and in the sales and profits of the companies I was charged with covering. I had to see whether it was possible to get ahead of the curve in forecasting consumer spending and general economic trends. I couldn’t excuse myself from this task simply by noting that few economists themselves had been successful at this. As much for self-preservation, I suppose, as from curiosity, I began to investigate how I might develop an improved<a id="page_x"></a> method for forecasting consumer spending and, with it, the rest of the economy. Furthermore, I wanted to document the basis for my forecasts with such clarity that my clients would understand not only the forecast but also the rationale supporting it.</p>

  <p class="indent">I recognized that it would be essential to study the relationships among various economic indicators over many decades and economic cycles. The primary question in this endeavor would be: Were there consistent and repetitive cause-and-effect (i.e., predictive) relationships among these series in the past that might be used to forecast future developments?</p>

  <p class="indent">I soon discovered—with considerable excitement—that economic events are not as random and unpredictable as I had previously thought. There were numerous cause-and-effect relationships in the economy that had practical value in forecasting, but many of the most effective ones had gone largely underappreciated and underused, even in the world of professional economists. Some of these relationships were well known and others less so, but most had simply not been placed into an analytical framework or working discipline that allowed their effective use.</p>

  <p class="indent">Thus my task was to develop (1) a simplified, user-friendly method for monitoring and analyzing the various economic data series that describe economic advances and declines and equally, (2) a framework for understanding the <i>sequence</i> of events that manifests itself in a typical cycle. Intuitively, I recognized that it would not be possible to gain mental control of long columns of figures covering forty years or more of economic history. I found that only charts provided the means of visualizing whatever long-term relationships existed among key economic data series. I learned that, far from having to rely on anecdotal reportage about consumer confidence, durable-goods orders, interest rates, and “what Alan Greenspan is going to do,” I could actually <i>view</i> valuable cause-and-effect relationships among economic series that have repeated themselves cycle after cycle over many decades and remain highly relevant today. Essentially, via effective charting I could “see the economy.”</p>

  <p class="indent">The four most dangerous words in assessing economic and stock market cycles are, “It’s different this time!” In fact, you will see in this<a id="page_xi"></a> book that almost every cycle over the past four decades has followed the same chronology of cause and effect, and often with a similar dimension of advance or decline in the various sectors of the economy. Far from finding more differences among cycles, I found greater similarities.</p>

  <p class="indent">This comforting discovery suggested that I could apply these findings to forecasting economic direction in future cycles. By tracking not the absolute numbers themselves, but the <i>rates of change</i> in the most effective leading indicators, I was usually (though not always) able to catch key inflection points—upturns and downturns in trend—ahead of the prevailing economic forecasts. In short, I became much more adept than I had been in predicting the next change of direction in the economy and positioning myself to take advantage of it.</p>

  <p class="indent">By the mid-1970s, I began using my charts of economic cause and effect in timing my forecasts of consumer spending, the outlook for retail stocks, and the stock market in general. Happily, my new method worked effectively and provided me with considerable competitive advantage in my work. I didn’t always catch the economic turning point far in advance, but my new discipline more often than not allowed me to position myself ahead of other investment professionals, and I always had a strong understanding of where we were in the cycle of the economy and the stock market. I have now successfully used the approach set forth here for enough years that I believe it has real value to the lay businessperson and investor. That is why I have written this book.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is About</h2>

  <p class="noindent">I would like you to think of this book as having two broad purposes:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• <i>To help us understand and then overcome major flaws in the way most economic information is reported and digested by the business, investment, and economist communities.</i> A new framework for analyzing economic data is essential if we are to foresee turning points in the economic cycle before most of the damage (or benefit) has already occurred. I have attempted to provide that perspective in <a href="../Text/07_part1.html">part I</a>.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xii"></a>• <i>To put this new framework to work in forecasting.</i> In <a href="../Text/14_part2.html">parts II</a> and <a href="../Text/17_part3.html">III</a>, we will identify and track the key drivers of economic cycles and the sequence of indicators as they unfold in economic advances and declines. In <a href="../Text/24_part4.html">part IV</a>, we will drill down a little deeper into the economy and apply the same approach to individual industries and even companies.</p>

  <p class="indent">The methodology detailed in this book results from empirical observations I developed and carefully recorded over my three decades as a working investment analyst on Wall Street. Using this approach, I was able to put the economy and the stock market into a context that made sense: where the economic cycle had been, where it was at the time, and where it was headed. When my leading indicators were equivocal, I was equivocal; however, when the leading indicators pointed unequivocally upward or downward, I was unequivocal in my forecasts. Throughout this book, I also relate the stock market to the chronology of events that occurs in every economic cycle, because the stock market itself is a key economic indicator and obviously of great importance.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Key Findings</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Let me simplify here the key premises of this book so that, having a preliminary grasp of its findings from the outset, you can make the best use of it as we travel through it together.</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Cause-and-effect relationships among key economic indicators, and the sequences in which they occur, repeat themselves in cycle after cycle. These relationships can thus be used to forecast future economic cycles.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. To put these relationships to work, we must first correct several key flaws in the way economic data are typically reported and analyzed. These flaws include the following:</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The overreliance by most observers on “recession”—(two successive quarters of <i>absolute decline</i> in the economy)—as the key measure of economic harm. Recession is, in fact, such a lagging indicator of a slowing economy that it is largely useless<a id="page_xiii"></a> to business managers and investors. Most damage to the economy and the stock market is done when <i>rates of growth</i> in consumer spending and other economic drivers <i>peak</i> and begin to slow. This decline in growth rates typically precedes recession (again, an <i>absolute decline</i> in economic activity) by as much as a year. Thus if we are to get ahead of the curve, we must train ourselves to spot the early stages of declining rates of growth, rather than recession, as the key measure of economic downturns.</p>

  <p class="bullet-m">• The widespread practice of measuring economic data on a quarter-versus-previous-quarter or even month-to-month basis. This attempt to provide short-term sensitivity to economic trends, although a laudable goal, in fact creates such noise and confusion that it obfuscates valid and underlying relationships among economic data series.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. <a href="../Text/12_chapter5.html">Chapter 5</a> shows that tracking and analyzing economic data series, based on <i>year-over-year rates of change,</i> provides a clarity that enhances our ability to use these series to predict future events. I employ the acronym ROCET (rate of change in economic tracking) to describe a preferred new approach to monitoring economic data. Once we master these technicalities, we will see that charting is the analytical method by which we can best track one economic data series versus another to reveal their predictive capabilities.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Consumer spending is by far the largest part of the U.S. economy, and drives the rate of economic change in most other economic sectors. Other sectors of the economy simply don’t have the size or causal characteristics to be more than secondary drivers of the business cycle. As obvious as this fact is, it is not heeded by economic forecasters to the extent it should be. If we can predict turning points in consumer spending, we can also successfully predict inflection points in the economy at large and, often, the stock market. This book follows the sequence of events that begins with consumers’ real (unit) hourly earnings—my favorite leading indicator of consumer spending—and<a id="page_xiv"></a> proceeds through the demand chain to consumer spending, industrial production, capital spending, and corporate profits.</p>

  <p class="hang">5. <i>Lagging</i> economic indicators, such as employment and capital (business) spending, are often mistakenly viewed as primary economic drivers. These lagging indicators therefore can actually deceive the unwary into remaining positive well past the peak in the economy and stock market and remaining pessimistic well beyond the trough. Identifying these laggards helps us sit above the fray as others become lost in it.</p>

  <p class="hang">6. To forecast uptrends and downtrends in a number of individual industry sectors, we can drill down beneath the macro economy. You may well find smaller components that will help you forecast the demand cycle for your own industry or company.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre1en1" id="pre1en_1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">The Two Poles of Economic Discourse</h2>

  <p class="noindent">Books and other publications on the economy have tended to move toward two poles, each of which has left us, as lay readers, with few tools to employ and little to pursue in forecasting the economy as we seek to maximize our business and investments.</p>

  <p class="indent">The first is purely verbal, often devoid of any seeming dependence on, or relationship to, real numbers. Many of these deal with consumer and business psychology—for example, how consumers and businesses make investment and purchase decisions, rationally or irrationally. These verbal discourses may offer valuable and even entertaining insights and are more easily read, but invariably lack a pragmatic <i>working discipline</i> for forecasting. This leaves us with no process or prospects for looking forward at the economy—which can only be measured and predicted in terms of <i>numbers</i>.</p>

  <p class="indent">The second direction—the polar opposite of the first—belongs to the mathematicians and theoreticians, whose complex formulae and hypotheses represent the highest level of statistical thinking in academia, but are accessible only to those few scholars who have reached this level of study. More importantly, few theories emanating from this realm have actually proved readily usable in the real worlds of business<a id="page_xv"></a> and investment, and have been totally inaccessible to lay audiences. Bottom line: if these abstruse approaches had resulted in more accurate forecasting of economic and stock-market directions and turning points, we might accept their value and simply use them, despite our personal inabilities to comprehend the processes themselves. However, this has not been the case.</p>

  <p class="indent">In both cases, our inability as lay users (and I include in this group professional businesspeople and investors) to perceive the <i>working discipline</i> in the forecasting process results in the high level of uncertainty we all feel. Ironically, this makes our lives easier: we simply throw our hands into the air, conclude that there is little to be done, and relieve ourselves of any analytical effort beyond listening to the evening news! We thus settle into a state of conveniently lazy resignation.</p>

  <p class="indent">I have written this book in the belief that there is an accessible and pragmatic middle ground between these poles of economic discourse. We must begin with the recognition that developing a forecasting discipline for the economy and stock market warrants a somewhat higher level of ongoing effort. Adopting <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s methodology will ask more of you—a bit of time and intellectual engagement in mastering a simplified, working-discipline approach to understanding the economy and its elusive companion, the stock market. However, the main tools you will need are free. It’s really not very hard, and this book will show you how.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">What This Book Is Not</h2>

  <p class="noindent"><i>Ahead of the Curve</i> is not an economics textbook, nor is it meant to be a complete survey of all key subjects relating to the economy. Its purpose is, quite simply, to help place into context the confusing array of economic data series we receive daily. Occasionally I have been asked why I do not spend more time referencing the considerable body of scholarly work relating to many of the economic indicators discussed herein. The answer itself is a sort of statement of purpose for the book: as described earlier, although a good deal of worthy theoretical and diagnostic work has been done at both the macro- and the microeconomic level, much of it has been conducted at abstruse levels not accessible to<a id="page_xvi"></a> most readers. In many instances, the practical benefit of such work is not apparent to businesspeople, investors, and policy makers who need to forecast the economy. This book is about empirical, statistical observation of how key economic indicators have played out in past cycles, and it is geared to pragmatic forecasting of the macro economy and the stock market in a framework that is comprehensible and usable to those who lack advanced degrees in economics, mathematics, or psychology. Unless a hypothesis can be shown to have <i>clear practical value in forecasting</i>—in terms that are understandable to lay businesspeople and investors—it does not fall within the mission of this book.</p>

  <p class="indent">For example, <i>Ahead of the Curve</i> does not delve into the increasingly popular field of behavioral economics. There is no denying that psychology and behavior play a role in the economy, particularly when major political and international events (wars, terrorism, etc.) are involved; however, these effects are primarily event-driven and therefore highly unpredictable. Furthermore, the charts in this book suggest few instances in which psychology trumped statistical economic indicators in forecasting. Anecdotal and difficult-to-measure political and psychological factors often make interesting reading, but in my opinion they remain part of the nebulous minefield that we must skirt as we establish a <i>working discipline</i> for tracking the primary drivers that make more successful forecasting possible.</p>

  <p class="indent">In addition, I have not dealt with some undeniably important economic subjects that now and then play a significant role in the economic cycle but more often are secondary in their effects. For example, major imbalances in foreign trade and significant related surpluses or deficits in the balance of payments can be major factors at any given time. Indeed, as I write, the United States has a major trade deficit that is resulting in (1) an uncomfortably high share of U.S. national debt being held by other countries, (2) a dollar that remains weak against other currencies, and (3) the possibility of sharply rising interest rates to keep foreign and domestic investors buying U.S. debt. Although this situation may have a material effect on the U.S. economy over the next several years, it is not a factor that regularly plays a principal role—as opposed to a secondary (one of many) role—in determining the course of our economic cycle. As an economic subject, it certainly deserves major investigation in economic textbooks, but it does not lend itself to<a id="page_xvii"></a> this book’s analytical discipline based on the repeating primary drivers that require our closest focus in forecasting of the economy year after year and cycle after cycle.</p>

  <p class="indent">We might view the economic cycle as being a bit like the four seasons of the year, always occurring in the same sequence. Affected by extraneous forces, some summers will be warmer than others, and some winters colder. But summer will always come and will be warm, and winter will always come and be cold. We will see that, in the same way, economic cycles by their nature are reflected in uptrends and downtrends, some of which are longer, others shorter, some reaching higher-than-normal rates of growth, and still others sagging to greater declines. But my charts reveal that the sequence of leading and lagging economic indicators rarely changes, just as leaves will always fall from the trees before the snows arrive. This book is designed to do two things: highlight those indicators and sequences that have proven to have predictive value, and render them accessible for the purpose of predicting business and stock market cycles.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many if not most of the indicators and relationships I emphasize are well known to academic economists, but the framework and methodology are, I believe, novel. In emphasizing the importance of accessibility to non-academics interested in the economy and the stock market, I do not mean to suggest that this book would not prove useful in the realm of academic economics as well. Indeed it is my hope that it will.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">About the Charts</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book includes numerous charts. Many—occupying a full page to accommodate more than forty years of data—demonstrate that the cause-and-effect relationships explained in the text really do occur as described. Most juxtapose, over four or more decades, as many as four variables:</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• One line representing an economic data series that is a leading—or causal—indicator.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• A second line that is the lagging indicator—that is, one whose direction is likely driven by the first line.</p>

  <p class="bullet_b"><a id="page_xviii"></a>• Vertical shaded bars representing stock market declines. These allow us to assess where, in the cycles defined by the two economic data series, stock prices were in a state of decline.</p>

  <p class="bullet_t">• Black bars (at the bottoms of the charts) denoting a recession. As I have noted, a recession typically is identified too late to be of use to either businesses or investors.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">As you read the charts you will have to come to grips with all four variables if you are to place these economic indictors into context with the stock market and recession. These large-scale historical charts are crucial, for they provide the needed proof that these cause-and-effect relationships have played themselves out in the economy in much the same way cycle after cycle. You can judge for yourself whether the case for each one is compelling. Without these charts and that proof, the forecasting discipline established in this book would mean little. Forecasting economic and stock-market cycles and turning points is more science than art and depends, I believe, on sound statistical/empirical disciplines. Theory alone, without documentation that is accessible to the lay reader, has little value.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2"><a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a></h2>

  <p class="noindent">I am confident that you will find many of the charted cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive in providing a new understanding of sequential developments in the economy and as the basis for greatly improving your forecasting. Obviously the charts in this book are static, with most of the data ending as of 2004. As time goes on, you will need additional data if you are to put these charts to use. To make this process easier, we have created a companion Web site for this book: <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a>. This site contains URLs for the economic data series for nineteen of the most important charts in the book (listed in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">Appendix D</a>), which will allow you easily to access the data series at government Web sites and other bureaus that report this data, so that you may create and update your own charts. As a further service to readers of this book, <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-the-Book.com</a> will maintain monthly updated versions of these nineteen<a id="page_xix"></a> charts, so that in the future you may easily refer to them for an updated perspective on the current economic and stock market outlook. The material on the Web site is free regardless of whether you purchase the book. I hope that this will allow <i>Ahead of the Curve</i>’s precepts to be of the greatest value to you over an extended period of time.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">How to Use This Book</h2>

  <p class="noindent">If you are company CEO or business unit head, I urge you to do the following:</p>

  <p class="hang">1. Identify a computer-literate and clear-thinking associate in your corporate planning department to read this book and master the methodology for creating cause-and-effect charts.</p>

  <p class="hang">2. Work with this associate and your corporate planning department to identify leading indicators at both the macro- and the microeconomic levels that might pertain to your company, your division, or the category of your product or service.</p>

  <p class="hang">3. Create charts that provide the best perspective on economic developments that will affect your business and give you the best chance for forecasting the business cycle in your sector.</p>

  <p class="hang">4. Arrange for monthly distribution and review of the charts, accompanied by simple and comprehensible observations.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">This process is potentially important not only for company and divisional CEOs and business managers but also for all professional and private investors, most of whom currently rely strictly on conventional economic forecasts. Investors would do well to establish their own empirical economic tracking and analytical disciplines based on the cause-and-effect charting methods offered in this book, at both the macro and the industry level.</p>

  <p class="indent">If you are a professional investment manager or an individual investor, you will benefit from the charting method, established in <a href="../Text/15_chapter7.html">chapter 7</a>, of marking bear markets with vertical gray bars as a means of comparing stock market declines against key economic indicators over forty or more years of charted history.<a href="../Text/30_notes.html#pre2en2" id="pre2en_2"><sup>2</sup></a> The results show, in many cases,<a id="page_xx"></a> remarkable consistency in the timing of bull and bear markets versus key economic indicators. And the disciplined application of the consistent sequence among consumer spending, industrial production, and capital spending will certainly help analysts and investors in these sectors to understand the order in which companies in these sectors participate in economic uptrends and downtrends, with commensurate effects on the performance of their stocks.</p>

  <p class="indent">To lay readers, I urge you to put this method to work in your own business or portfolio. If you find several of the cause-and-effect relationships in this book persuasive, go to the Web sites provided in <a href="../Text/29_App-D.html">appendix D</a> and download the two series—a leading series and a lagging one—beginning with 1960. Thereafter, simply update and observe the progress of the series each month, using the leading series to forecast the lagging one. Or you may take a far easier course and simply go to <a href="http://www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com">www.AheadoftheCurve-theBook.com</a> and view the nineteen charts that will be maintained on an updated basis there.</p>

  <p class="indent">In this way, you will gain economic perspective and begin to reduce your dependence on economic blurbs in newspapers and fifteen-second economic reports on the evening news. These are economically volatile times, at home and abroad, and we are flooded with information. It is hard to know how to interpret most of the data and analysis that flow our way. Ahead of the Curve is intended to bring analytical discipline and context to your evaluation of economic reporting and to empower you in enhancing your understanding of the outlook for the business cycle and the stock market.</p>

  <p class="t_border"></p>

  <h2 class="h2">Acknowledgments</h2>

  <p class="noindent">This book, from its concepts to its individual charts and exhibits, is the result of more than three decades of work with my talented associates at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Company. It began with my colleagues Ellen R. Harris and Marcia Krieger in the 1970s, long before personal computers facilitated the easy retrieval, manipulation, and charting of economic data. In those days, data were obtained from government journals; rates of change were tabulated on a mechanical calculator or even a slide rule; and charts were drawn by laboriously pasting taped lines on<a id="page_xxi"></a> large white posterboards, which were then photographed for publication. The work continued during the 1980s and early 1990s with the help of my able statistical assistant, Felicia Sotillo, to whom the original production of many of the charts in this book can be attributed. We made great strides in recent years with the skill and hard work of my associates Karim Mirshak, Sophia Savul, Stephanie Froes, and Prashant Bothra, each of whom contributed fresh ideas as plans for this book took shape. I am particularly indebted to Prashant for his hard work and commitment to detail as work with my editors at Harvard Business School Press intensified.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate over many years to work with retail-analyst colleagues Stephen Mandel, David Bolotsky, George Strachan, and Matthew Fassler, who not only used this forecasting method but also added to its efficacy. And I can never sufficiently thank my administrative assistant for more than eighteen years, Julie Loprete, whose exceptional capabilities and friendship supported all my efforts at Goldman Sachs.</p>

  <p class="indent">Many learned colleagues, friends, and advisers have read drafts of the book at various stages and have contributed to its content. These include the following:</p>

  <p class="block">William Dudley, chief U.S. economist, and Jan Hatzius, senior economist, of Goldman Sachs, who offered important guidance on economic issues during the early writing.</p>

  <p class="block">Barrie Wigmore, retired partner of Goldman Sachs and author of <i>The Crash and Its Aftermath: A History of the Securities Markets in the United States, 1929–1933</i> and <i>Securities Markets in the 1980s: The New Regime, 1979–1984.</i></p>

  <p class="block">John Sweeney, president and CEO of Swiss RE Company and an accomplished economist and investment thinker.</p>

  <p class="block">Morris Williams, partner of Miller Anderson &amp; Sherrard, for his wise guidance in clarifying the structure of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Gary Loveman, CEO of Harrah’s and former associate professor of business administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, an accomplished economist in his own right.</p>

  <p class="block">John Gilbertson of Goldman Sachs, whose incisive observations regarding the chronology of the economic cycle and charting<a id="page_xxii"></a> methods helped significantly at the early stages in the writing of this book.</p>

  <p class="block">Bernie Sosnick of Oppenheimer &amp; Co., who provided wise advice at the very earliest stages of this project.</p>

  <p class="block">Brian Thomas of Swiss RE Company, good friend and most astute reader, whose thoughtful commentary on the book helped me improve its readability.</p>

  <p class="block">David Larr, a longtime family friend and expert in the organization, possibilities, and vagaries of historic economic data.</p>

  <p class="indent_t">I have indeed been fortunate to gain the good counsel of my son, Jonathan Ellis, and my daughter, Claire Ellis. Jon, a professor of philosophy, thoroughly reviewed key parts of the draft, provided important observations with a nuance worthy of his field, and helped develop the concept of asymmetrical circular causality. Claire, who spent a number of years in book marketing and publicity, has been of great value in thinking through the marketing aspects of the book.</p>

  <p class="indent">Finally, I have been extraordinarily fortunate in the editorial assistance I have received in the later stage of the writing and final preparation of the book. Victoria Larson, formerly of Texere, a business publishing firm, expertly guided me through a first reorganization of the draft before its submission to Harvard Business School Press.</p>

  <p class="indent">I am deeply indebted to Jacque Murphy, my principal editor at Harvard Business School Press, who quickly identified important issues of organization and readability in earlier drafts. She and her associates skillfully guided me through the entire process of preparation and publication.</p>

  <p class="indent">I was fortunate to work with Jane Isay in reorganizing and bringing greater narrative life to this book. The subject matter is, of course, often technical and intense, and Jane showed the way to increase the book’s readability and accessibility. I am also most grateful to Jane for leading me to Julia Kagan, who took full charge of the many figures and tables in this book and with unflagging dedication saw to their accuracy, consistency, and placement. She also identified and worked with Bruce Campbell of Bruce Campbell Design, who with equal ardor adapted the data and charts I used at Goldman Sachs over the years into a format appropriate for this book. Without Jane, Julia, and Bruce, I would not have been able to complete this project.</p>

  <p class="indent"><a id="page_xxiii"></a>Finally, I am deeply grateful to my wife, Barbara, for her patience and understanding over the several years during which this book absorbed much of my spare time that otherwise might have gone to being with her and our family. I am truly blessed to have had this support.</p>
</body>
</html>
2023-03-08 01:02:29 INFO  - pageSourceWithSettingsEnd+++++++++++++++++++++++++
2023-03-08 01:02:29 INFO  - Taking screenshot
2023-03-08 01:02:31 INFO  - Test finished - logging out
2023-03-08 01:02:32 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:35 INFO  - Button 'tabSettings' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:36 INFO  - Button 'Accounts' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:37 INFO  - Button 'LYRASIS Reads' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:39 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:02:40 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:02:41 INFO  - Button 'Log out' :: Clicking
2023-03-08 01:02:41 INFO  - Button 'Log in' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:02:44 INFO  - Text Field 'Card' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:02:45 INFO  - Text Field 'Pin' :: Getting text from element
2023-03-08 01:02:46 INFO  - isLoggerNullAfterAnnotation-framework.utilities.Logger@77fa6f19
